3 | 44 | 64 | Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: I said to Ibn `Abbas, "Nauf-Al-Bakali claims that Moses (the companion of Khadir) was not theMoses of Bani Israel but he was another Moses." Ibn `Abbas remarked that the enemy of Allah (Nauf)was a liar. Narrated Ubai bin Ka`b:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Once the Prophet (ﷺ) Moses stood up and addressed Bani Israel. He was asked, "Whois the most learned man amongst the people. He said, "I am the most learned." Allah admonishedMoses as he did not attribute absolute knowledge to Him (Allah). So Allah inspired to him "At thejunction of the two seas there is a slave amongst my slaves who is more learned than you." Mosessaid, "O my Lord! How can I meet him?" Allah said: Take a fish in a large basket (and proceed) andyou will find him at the place where you will lose the fish. So Moses set out along with his (servant)boy, Yusha` bin Noon and carried a fish in a large basket till they reached a rock, where they laid theirheads (i.e. lay down) and slept. The fish came out of the basket and it took its way into the sea as in atunnel. So it was an amazing thing for both Moses and his (servant) boy. They proceeded for the restof that night and the following day. When the day broke, Moses said to his (servant) boy: "Bring usour early meal. No doubt, we have suffered much fatigue in this journey." Moses did not get tired tillhe passed the place about which he was told. There the (servant) boy told Moses, "Do you rememberwhen we betook ourselves to the rock, I indeed forgot the fish." Moses remarked, "That is what wehave been seeking. So they went back retracing their footsteps, till they reached the rock. There theysaw a man covered with a garment (or covering himself with his own garment). Moses greeted him.Al-Khadir replied saying, "How do people greet each other in your land?"Moses said, "I am Moses." He asked, "The Moses of Bani Israel?" Moses replied in the affirmativeand added, "May I follow you so that you teach me of that knowledge which you have been taught."Al-Khadir replied, "Verily! You will not be able to remain patient with me, O Moses! I have some ofthe knowledge of Allah which He has taught me and which you do not know, while you have someknowledge which Allah has taught you which I do not know." Moses said, "Allah willing, you willfind me patient and I will disobey no order of yours. So both of them set out walking along theseashore, as they did not have a boat. In the meantime a boat passed by them and they requested thecrew of the boat to take them on board. The crew recognized Al-Khadir and took them on boardwithout fare. Then a sparrow came and stood on the edge of the boat and dipped its beak once or twicein the sea. Al-Khadir said: "O Moses! My knowledge and your knowledge have not decreased Allah'sknowledge except as much as this sparrow has decreased the water of the sea with its beak." Al-Khadir went to one of the planks of the boat and plucked it out. Moses said, "These people gave us afree lift but you have broken their boat and scuttled it so as to drown its people." Al-Khadir replied,"Didn't I tell you that you will not be able to remain patient with me." Moses said, "Call me not toaccount for what I forgot." The first (excuse) of Moses was that he had forgotten.Then they proceeded further and found a boy playing with other boys. Al-Khadir took hold of theboy's head from the top and plucked it out with his hands (i.e. killed him). Moses said, "Have youkilled an innocent soul who has killed none." Al-Khadir replied, "Did I not tell you that you cannotremain patient with me?" Then they both proceeded till when they came to the people of a town, theyasked them for food, but they refused to entertain them. Then they found there a wall on the point ofcollapsing. Al-Khadir repaired it with his own hands. Moses said, "If you had wished, surely youcould have taken wages for it." Al-Khadir replied, "This is the parting between you and me." TheProphet added, "May Allah be Merciful to Moses! Would that he could have been more patient tolearn more about his story with Al-Khadir. "