8 | 12 | 23 | Narrated `Abdul `Aziz: Anas said, 'When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invaded Khaibar, we offered the Fajr prayer there (early in themorning) when it was still dark. The Prophet (ﷺ) rode and Abu Talha rode too and I was riding behindAbu Talha. The Prophet (ﷺ) passed through the lane of Khaibar quickly and my knee was touching thethigh of the Prophet (ﷺ) . He uncovered his thigh and I saw the whiteness of the thigh of the Prophet.When he entered the town, he said, 'Allahu Akbar! Khaibar is ruined. Whenever we approach near a(hostile) nation (to fight) then evil will be the morning of those who have been warned.' He repeatedthis thrice. The people came out for their jobs and some of them said, 'Muhammad (has come).' (Someof our companions added, "With his army.") We conquered Khaibar, took the captives, and the bootywas collected. Dihya came and said, 'O Allah's Prophet! Give me a slave girl from the captives.' TheProphet said, 'Go and take any slave girl.' He took Safiya bint Huyai. A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) andsaid, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s! You gave Safiya bint Huyai to Dihya and she is the chief mistress of thetribes of Quraidha and An-Nadir and she befits none but you.' So the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Bring him alongwith her.' So Dihya came with her and when the Prophet (ﷺ) saw her, he said to Dihya, 'Take any slavegirl other than her from the captives.' Anas added: The Prophet (ﷺ) then manumitted her and married her."Thabit asked Anas, "O Abu Hamza! What did the Prophet (ﷺ) pay her (as Mahr)?" He said, "Her self washer Mahr for he manumitted her and then married her." Anas added, "While on the way, Um Sulaimdressed her for marriage (ceremony) and at night she sent her as a bride to the Prophet (ﷺ) . So theProphet was a bridegroom and he said, 'Whoever has anything (food) should bring it.' He spread out aleather sheet (for the food) and some brought dates and others cooking butter. (I think he (Anas)mentioned As-Sawaq). So they prepared a dish of Hais (a kind of meal). And that was Walima (themarriage banquet) of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ."