9 | 41 | 81 | Narrated Abu `Uthman: `Abdur Rahman bin Abi Bakr said, "The Suffa Companions were poor people and the Prophet (ﷺ) said,'Whoever has food for two persons should take a third one from them (Suffa companions). Andwhosoever has food for four persons he should take one or two from them' Abu Bakr took three menand the Prophet (ﷺ) took ten of them."`Abdur Rahman added, my father my mother and I were there (in the house). (The sub-narrator is indoubt whether `Abdur Rahman also said, 'My wife and our servant who was common for both myhouse and Abu Bakr's house). Abu Bakr took his supper with the Prophet (ﷺ) and remained there till the`Isha' prayer was offered. Abu Bakr went back and stayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) till the Prophet (ﷺ) took hismeal and then Abu Bakr returned to his house after a long portion of the night had passed. Abu Bakr'swife said, 'What detained you from your guests (or guest)?' He said, 'Have you not served them yet?'She said, 'They refused to eat until you come. The food was served for them but they refused." `AbdurRahman added, "I went away and hid myself (being afraid of Abu Bakr) and in the meantime he (AbuBakr) called me, 'O Ghunthar (a harsh word)!' and also called me bad names and abused me and thensaid (to his family), 'Eat. No welcome for you.' Then (the supper was served). Abu Bakr took an oaththat he would not eat that food. The narrator added: By Allah, whenever any one of us (myself and theguests of Suffa companions) took anything from the food, it increased from underneath. We all ate toour fill and the food was more than it was before its serving.Abu Bakr looked at it (the food) and found it as it was before serving or even more than that. Headdressed his wife (saying) 'O the sister of Bani Firas! What is this?' She said, 'O the pleasure of myeyes! The food is now three times more than it was before.' Abu Bakr ate from it, and said, 'That(oath) was from Satan' meaning his oath (not to eat). Then he again took a morsel (mouthful) from itand then took the rest of it to the Prophet. So that meal was with the Prophet. There was a treatybetween us and some people, and when the period of that treaty had elapsed the Prophet (ﷺ) divided usinto twelve (groups) (the Prophet's companions) each being headed by a man. Allah knows how manymen were under the command of each (leader). So all of them (12 groups of men) ate of that meal."