10 | 51 | 84 | Narrated 'Ubaidullah Ibn `Abdullah bin `Utba: I went to `Aisha and asked her to describe to me the illness of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). `Aisha said, "Yes. TheProphet became seriously ill and asked whether the people had prayed. We replied, 'No. O Allah'sApostle! They are waiting for you.' He added, 'Put water for me in a trough." `Aisha added, "We didso. He took a bath and tried to get up but fainted. When he recovered, he again asked whether thepeople had prayed. We said, 'No, they are waiting for you. O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ),' He again said, 'Putwater in a trough for me.' He sat down and took a bath and tried to get up but fainted again. Then herecovered and said, 'Have the people prayed?' We replied, 'No, they are waiting for you. O Allah'sApostle.' He said, 'Put water for me in the trough.' Then he sat down and washed himself and tried toget up but he fainted. When he recovered, he asked, 'Have the people prayed?' We said, 'No, they arewaiting for you. O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The people were in the mosque waiting for the Prophet (ﷺ) for the`Isha prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) sent for Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer. The messenger went toAbu Bakr and said, 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) orders you to lead the people in the prayer.' Abu Bakr was asofthearted man, so he asked `Umar to lead the prayer but `Umar replied, 'You are more rightful.' SoAbu Bakr led the prayer in those days. When the Prophet (ﷺ) felt a bit better, he came out for the Zuhrprayer with the help of two persons one of whom was Al-`Abbas. while Abu Bakr was leading thepeople in the prayer. When Abu Bakr saw him he wanted to retreat but the Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned him notto do so and asked them to make him sit beside Abu Bakr and they did so. Abu Bakr was followingthe Prophet (in the prayer) and the people were following Abu Bakr. The Prophet (prayed) sitting."'Ubaidullah added "I went to `Abdullah bin `Abbas and asked him, Shall I tell you what Aisha has toldme about the fatal illness of the Prophet?' Ibn `Abbas said, 'Go ahead. I told him her narration and hedid not deny anything of it but asked whether `Aisha told me the name of the second person (whohelped the Prophet (ﷺ) ) along with Al-Abbas. I said. 'No.' He said, 'He was `Ali (Ibn Abi Talib).