10 | 129 | 201 | Narrated Abu Huraira: The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we see our Lord on the Day of Resurrection?" He replied,"Do you have any doubt in seeing the full moon on a clear (not cloudy) night?" They replied, "No, OAllah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Do you have any doubt in seeing the sun when there are no clouds?" Theyreplied in the negative. He said, "You will see Allah (your Lord) in the same way. On the Day ofResurrection, people will be gathered and He will order the people to follow what they used toworship. So some of them will follow the sun, some will follow the moon, and some will follow otherdeities; and only this nation (Muslims) will be left with its hypocrites. Allah will come to them andsay, 'I am Your Lord.' They will say, 'We shall stay in this place till our Lord comes to us and whenour Lord will come, we will recognize Him. Then Allah will come to them again and say, 'I am yourLord.' They will say, 'You are our Lord.' Allah will call them, and As-Sirat (a bridge) will be laidacross Hell and I (Muhammad) shall be the first amongst the Apostles to cross it with my followers.Nobody except the Apostles will then be able to speak and they will be saying then, 'O Allah! Save us.O Allah Save us.'There will be hooks like the thorns of Sa'dan [??] in Hell. Have you seen the thorns of Sa'dan [??]?"The people said, "Yes." He said, "These hooks will be like the thorns of Sa'dan [??] but nobody exceptAllah knows their greatness in size and these will entangle the people according to their deeds; someof them will fall and stay in Hell forever; others will receive punishment (torn into small pieces) andwill get out of Hell, till when Allah intends mercy on whomever He likes amongst the people of Hell,He will order the angels to take out of Hell those who worshipped none but Him alone. The angelswill take them out by recognizing them from the traces of prostrations, for Allah has forbidden the(Hell) fire to eat away those traces. So they will come out of the Fire, it will eat away from the wholeof the human body except the marks of the prostrations. At that time they will come out of the Fire asmere skeletons. The Water of Life will be poured on them and as a result they will grow like the seedsgrowing on the bank of flowing water.Then when Allah had finished from the Judgments amongst his creations, one man will be leftbetween Hell and Paradise and he will be the last man from the people of Hell to enter paradise. Hewill be facing Hell, and will say, 'O Allah! Turn my face from the fire as its wind has dried me and itssteam has burnt me.' Allah will ask him, "Will you ask for anything more in case this favor is grantedto you?' He will say, "No by Your (Honor) Power!" And he will give to his Lord (Allah) what he willof the pledges and the covenants. Allah will then turn his face from the Fire. When he will faceParadise and will see its charm, he will remain quiet as long as Allah will. He then will say, 'O myLord! Let me go to the gate of Paradise.' Allah will ask him, 'Didn't you give pledges and makecovenants (to the effect) that you would not ask for anything more than what you requested at first?'He will say, 'O my Lord! Do not make me the most wretched, amongst Your creatures.' Allah will say,'If this request is granted, will you then ask for anything else?' He will say, 'No! By Your Power! Ishall not ask for anything else.' Then he will give to his Lord what He will of the pledges and thecovenants.Allah will then let him go to the gate of Paradise. On reaching then and seeing its life, charm, andpleasure, he will remain quiet as long as Allah wills and then will say, 'O my Lord ! Let me enterParadise.' Allah will say, May Allah be merciful unto you, O son of Adam! How treacherous you are!Haven't you made covenants and given pledges that you will not ask for anything more that what youhave been given?' He will say, 'O my Lord! Do not make me the most wretched amongst Yourcreatures.' So Allah will laugh and allow him to enter Paradise and will ask him to request as much ashe likes. He will do so till all his desires have been fulfilled . Then Allah will say, 'Request more ofsuch and such things.' Allah will remind him and when all his desires and wishes; have been fulfilled,Allah will say "All this is granted to you and a similar amount besides." Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri, said toAbu Huraira, 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'That is for you and ten times more like it.' "AbuHuraira said, "I do not remember from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) except (his saying), 'All this is granted to youand a similar amount besides." Abu Sa`id said, "I heard him saying, 'That is for you and ten timesmore the like of it."