19 | 36 | 66 | Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-rabi' Al-Ansari: Mahmud said that he had heard`Itban bin Malik, who was present with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the battle of Badr saying, "I used to lead mypeople at Bani Salim in the prayer and there was a valley between me and those people. Whenever itrained it used to be difficult for me to cross it to go to their mosque. So I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) andsaid, 'I have weak eyesight and the valley between me and my people flows during the rainy seasonand it becomes difficult for me to cross it; I wish you would come to my house and pray at a place sothat I could take that place as a praying place.' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'I will do so.' So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)and Abu Bakr came to my house in the (next) morning after the sun had risen high. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)asked my permission to let him in and I admitted him. He did not sit before saying, 'Where do youwant us to offer the prayer in your house?' I pointed to the place where I wanted him to pray. SoAllah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up for the prayer and started the prayer with Takbir and we aligned in rowsbehind him; and he offered two rak`at, and finished them with Taslim, and we also performed Taslimwith him. I detained him for a meal called "Khazir" which I had prepared for him.--("Khazir" is aspecial type of dish prepared from barley flour and meat soup)--When the neighbors got the news that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in my house, they poured it till there were agreat number of men in the house. One of them said, 'What is wrong with Malik, for I do not see him?'One of them replied, 'He is a hypocrite and does not love Allah and His Apostle.' On that Allah'sApostle said, 'Don't say this. Haven't you seen that he said, 'None has the right to be worshipped butAllah for Allah's sake only.' The man replied, 'Allah and His Apostle know better; but by Allah, wenever saw him but helping and talking with the hypocrites.' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, 'No doubt,whoever says. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and by that he wants the pleasures ofAllah, then Allah will save him from Hell." Mahmud added, "I told the above narration to somepeople, one of whom was Abu Aiyub, the companion of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the battle in which he (AbuAiyub) died and Yazid bin Mu'awiya was their leader in Roman Territory. Abu Aiyub denounced thenarration and said, 'I doubt that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ever said what you have said.' I felt that too much, andI vowed to Allah that if I remained alive in that holy battle, I would (go to Medina and) ask `Itban binMalik if he was still living in the mosque of his people. So when he returned, I assumed Ihram forHajj or `Umra and then I proceeded on till I reached Medina. I went to Bani Salim and `Itban binMalik, who was by then an old blind man, was leading his people in the prayer. When he finished theprayer, I greeted him and introduced myself to him and then asked him about that narration. He toldthat narration again in the same manner as he had narrated it the first time."