37 | 12 | 13 | Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Three men from among those who were before you, set out togethertill they reached a cave at night and entered it. A big rock rolled down the mountain and closed themouth of the cave. They said (to each other), Nothing could save you from this rock but to invokeAllah by giving reference to the righteous deed which you have done (for Allah's sake only).' So, oneof them said, 'O Allah! I had old parents and I never provided my family (wife, children etc.) withmilk before them. One day, by chance I was delayed, and I came late (at night) while they had slept. Imilked the sheep for them and took the milk to them, but I found them sleeping. I disliked to providemy family with the milk before them. I waited for them and the bowl of milk was in my hand and Ikept on waiting for them to get up till the day dawned. Then they got up and drank the milk. O Allah!If I did that for Your Sake only, please relieve us from our critical situation caused by this rock.' So,the rock shifted a little but they could not get out."The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "The second man said, 'O Allah! I had a cousin who was the dearest of all peopleto me and I wanted to have sexual relations with her but she refused. Later she had a hard time in afamine year and she came to me and I gave her one-hundred-and-twenty Dinars on the condition thatshe would not resist my desire, and she agreed. When I was about to fulfill my desire, she said: It isillegal for you to outrage my chastity except by legitimate marriage. So, I thought it a sin to havesexual intercourse with her and left her though she was the dearest of all the people to me, and also Ileft the gold I had given her. O Allah! If I did that for Your Sake only, please relieve us from thepresent calamity.' So, the rock shifted a little more but still they could not get out from there."The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Then the third man said, 'O Allah! I employed few laborers and I paid them theirwages with the exception of one man who did not take his wages and went away. I invested his wagesand I got much property thereby. (Then after some time) he came and said to me: O Allah's slave! Payme my wages. I said to him: All the camels, cows, sheep and slaves you see, are yours. He said: OAllah's slave! Don't mock at me. I said: I am not mocking at you. So, he took all the herd and drovethem away and left nothing. O Allah! If I did that for Your Sake only, please relieve us from thepresent suffering.' So, that rock shifted completely and they got out walking.