39 | 1 | 1 | Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "An Israeli man asked another Israeli to lend himone thousand Dinars. The second man required witnesses. The formerreplied, 'Allah is sufficient as a witness.' The second said, 'I wanta surety.' The former replied, 'Allah is sufficient as a surety.' Thesecond said, 'You are right,' and lent him the money for a certainperiod. The debtor went across the sea. When he finished his job, hesearched for a conveyance so that he might reach in time for therepayment of the debt, but he could not find any. So, he took a pieceof wood and made a hole in it, inserted in it one thousand Dinars anda letter to the lender and then closed (i.e. sealed) the hole tightly.He took the piece of wood to the sea and said. 'O Allah! You know wellthat I took a loan of one thousand Dinars from so-and-so. He demandeda surety from me but I told him that Allah's Guarantee was sufficientand he accepted Your guarantee. He then asked for a witness and I toldhim that Allah was sufficient as a Witness, and he accepted You as aWitness. No doubt, I tried hard to find a conveyance so that I couldpay his money but could not find, so I hand over this money to You.'Saying that, he threw the piece of wood into the sea till it went outfar into it, and then he went away. Meanwhile he started searching fora conveyance in order to reach the creditor's country.One day the lender came out of his house to see whether a ship hadarrived bringing his money, and all of a sudden he saw the piece ofwood in which his money had been deposited. He took it home to use forfire. When he sawed it, he found his money and the letter inside it.Shortly after that, the debtor came bringing one thousand Dinars tohim and said, 'By Allah, I had been trying hard to get a boat so thatI could bring you your money, but failed to get one before the one Ihave come by.' The lender asked, 'Have you sent something to me?' Thedebtor replied, 'I have told you I could not get a boat other than theone I have come by.' The lender said, 'Allah has delivered on yourbehalf the money you sent in the piece of wood. So, you may keep yourone thousand Dinars and depart guided on the right path.' "