39 | 4 | 8 | Narrated Aisha: (wife of the Prophet) Since I reached the age when I could remember things, I have seen my parentsworshipping according to the right faith of Islam. Not a single day passed but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) visitedus both in the morning and in the evening. When the Muslims were persecuted, Abu Bakr set out forEthiopia as an emigrant. When he reached a place called Bark-al-Ghimad, he met Ibn Ad-Daghna, thechief of the Qara tribe, who asked Abu Bakr, "Where are you going?" Abu Bakr said, "My peoplehave turned me out of the country and I would like to tour the world and worship my Lord." Ibn Ad-Daghna said, "A man like you will not go out, nor will he be turned out as you help the poor earn theirliving, keep good relation with your Kith and kin, help the disabled (or the dependents), provideguests with food and shelter, and help people during their troubles. I am your protector. So, go backand worship your Lord at your home." Ibn Ad-Daghna went along with Abu Bakr and took him to thechiefs of Quraish saying to them, "A man like Abu Bakr will not go out, nor will he be turned out. Doyou turn out a man who helps the poor earn their living, keeps good relations with Kith and kin, helpsthe disabled, provides guests with food and shelter, and helps the people during their troubles?"So, Quraish allowed Ibn Ad-Daghna's guarantee of protection and told Abu- Bakr that he was secure,and said to Ibn Ad-Daghna, "Advise Abu Bakr to worship his Lord in his house and to pray and readwhat he liked and not to hurt us and not to do these things publicly, for we fear that our sons andwomen may follow him." Ibn Ad-Daghna told Abu Bakr of all that, so Abu- Bakr continuedworshipping his Lord in his house and did not pray or recite Qur'an aloud except in his house. Lateron Abu Bakr had an idea of building a mosque in the court yard of his house. He fulfilled that idea andstarted praying and reciting Qur'an there publicly. The women and the offspring of the pagans startedgathering around him and looking at him astonishingly. Abu Bakr was a softhearted person and couldnot help weeping while reciting Qur'an. This horrified the pagan chiefs of Quraish. They sent for IbnAd-Daghna and when he came, they said, "We have given Abu Bakr protection on condition that hewill worship his Lord in his house, but he has transgressed that condition and has built a mosque inthe court yard of his house and offered his prayer and recited Qur'an in public. We are afraid lest hemislead our women and offspring. So, go to him and tell him that if he wishes he can worship hisLord in his house only, and if not, then tell him to return your pledge of protection as we do not like tobetray you by revoking your pledge, nor can we tolerate Abu Bakr's public declaration of Islam (hisworshipping).`Aisha added: Ibn Ad-Daghna came to Abu Bakr and said, "You know the conditions on which I gaveyou protection, so you should either abide by those conditions or revoke my protection, as I do notlike to hear the 'Arabs saying that Ibn Ad-Daghna gave the pledge of protection to a person and hispeople did not respect it." Abu Bakr said, "I revoke your pledge of protection and am satisfied withAllah's protection." At that time Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was still in Mecca and he said to his companions,"Your place of emigration has been shown to me. I have seen salty land, planted with date-palms andsituated between two mountains which are the two ,Harras." So, when the Prophet (ﷺ) told it, some of thecompanions migrated to Medina, and some of those who had migrated to Ethiopia returned to Medina.When Abu Bakr prepared for emigration, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him, "Wait, for I expect to bepermitted to emigrate." Abu Bakr asked, "May my father be sacrificed for your sake, do you reallyexpect that?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied in the affirmative. So, Abu Bakr postponed his departure in orderto accompany Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and fed two camels which he had, with the leaves of Samor trees forfour months.