41 | 13 | 14 | Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While three men were walking, It started raining and they took shelter (refuge) in acave in a mountain. A big rock rolled down from the mountain and closed the mouth of the cave. Theysaid to each other, "Think of good deeds which you did for Allah's sake only, and invoke Allah bygiving reference to those deeds so that He may remove this rock from you."One of them said, 'O Allah! I had old parents and small children and I used to graze the sheep forthem. On my return to them in the evening, I used to milk (the sheep) and start providing my parentsfirst of all before my children. One day I was delayed and came late at night and found my parentssleeping. I milked (the sheep) as usual and stood by their heads. I hated to wake them up and dislikedto give milk to my children before them, although my children were weeping (because of hunger) atmy feet till the day dawned. O Allah! If I did this for Your sake only, kindly remove the rock so thatwe could see the sky through it.' So, Allah removed the rock a little and they saw the sky.The second man said, 'O Allah! I was in love with a cousin of mine like the deepest love a man mayhave for a woman. I wanted to outrage her chastity but she refused unless I gave her one hundredDinars. So, I struggled to collect that amount. And when I sat between her legs, she said, 'O Allah'sslave! Be afraid of Allah and do not deflower me except rightfully (by marriage).' So, I got up. OAllah! If I did it for Your sake only, please remove the rock.' The rock shifted a little more.Then the third man said, 'O Allah! I employed a laborer for a Faraq of rice and when he finished hisjob and demanded his right, I presented it to him, but he refused to take it. So, I sowed the rice manytime till I gathered cows and their shepherd (from the yield). (Then after some time) He came and saidto me, 'Fear Allah (and give me my right)." I said, 'Go and take those cows and the shepherd.' He said,'Be afraid of Allah! Don't mock at me.' I said, 'I am not mocking at you. Take (all that).' So, he took allthat. O Allah! If I did that for Your sake only, please remove the rest of the rock.' So, Allah removedthe rock."