46 | 25 | 28 | Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: I had been eager to ask `Umar about the two ladies from among the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) regardingwhom Allah said (in the Qur'an saying): If you two (wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) namely Aisha and Hafsa)turn in repentance to Allah your hearts are indeed so inclined (to oppose what the Prophet (ﷺ) likes)(66.4), till performed the Hajj along with `Umar (and on our way back from Hajj) he went aside (toanswer the call of nature) and I also went aside along with him carrying a tumbler of water. When hehad answered the call of nature and returned. I poured water on his hands from the tumbler and heperformed ablution. I said, "O Chief of the believers! ' Who were the two ladies from among the wivesof the Prophet (ﷺ) to whom Allah said:'If you two return in repentance (66.4)? He said, "I am astonished at your question, O Ibn `Abbas.They were Aisha and Hafsa."Then `Umar went on relating the narration and said. "I and an Ansari neighbor of mine from BaniUmaiya bin Zaid who used to live in `Awali Al-Medina, used to visit the Prophet (ﷺ) in turns. He used togo one day, and I another day. When I went I would bring him the news of what had happened thatday regarding the instructions and orders and when he went, he used to do the same for me. We, thepeople of Quraish, used to have authority over women, but when we came to live with the Ansar, wenoticed that the Ansari women had the upper hand over their men, so our women started acquiring thehabits of the Ansari women. Once I shouted at my wife and she paid me back in my coin and Idisliked that she should answer me back. She said, 'Why do you take it ill that I retort upon you? ByAllah, the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) retort upon him, and some of them may not speak with him for thewhole day till night.' What she said scared me and I said to her, 'Whoever amongst them does so, willbe a great loser.' Then I dressed myself and went to Hafsa and asked her, 'Does any of you keepAllah's Messenger (ﷺ) angry all the day long till night?' She replied in the affirmative. I said, 'She is a ruinedlosing person (and will never have success)! Doesn't she fear that Allah may get angry for the anger ofAllah's Messenger (ﷺ) and thus she will be ruined? Don't ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) too many things, and don'tretort upon him in any case, and don't desert him. Demand from me whatever you like, and don't betempted to imitate your neighbor (i.e. `Aisha) in her behavior towards the Prophet), for she (i.e. Aisha)is more beautiful than you, and more beloved to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).In those days it was rumored that Ghassan, (a tribe living in Sham) was getting prepared their horsesto invade us. My companion went (to the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of his turn, went and returned to us atnight and knocked at my door violently, asking whether I was sleeping. I was scared (by the hardknocking) and came out to him. He said that a great thing had happened. I asked him: What is it?Have Ghassan come? He replied that it was worse and more serious than that, and added that Allah'sApostle had divorced all his wives. I said, Hafsa is a ruined loser! I expected that would happen someday.' So I dressed myself and offered the Fajr prayer with the Prophet. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) entered anupper room and stayed there alone. I went to Hafsa and found her weeping. I asked her, 'Why are youweeping? Didn't I warn you? Have Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) divorced you all?' She replied, 'I don't know. He isthere in the upper room.' I then went out and came to the pulpit and found a group of people around itand some of them were weeping.Then I sat with them for some time, but could not endure the situation. So I went to the upper roomwhere the Prophet (ﷺ) was and requested to a black slave of his: "Will you get the permission of (Allah'sApostle) for `Umar (to enter)? The slave went in, talked to the Prophet (ﷺ) about it and came out saying, 'Imentioned you to him but he did not reply.' So, I went and sat with the people who were sitting by thepulpit, but I could not bear the situation, so I went to the slave again and said: "Will you get hepermission for `Umar? He went in and brought the same reply as before. When I was leaving, behold,the slave called me saying, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has granted you permission." So, I entered upon theProphet and saw him lying on a mat without wedding on it, and the mat had left its mark on the bodyof the Prophet, and he was leaning on a leather pillow stuffed with palm fires. I greeted him and whilestill standing, I said: "Have you divorced your wives?' He raised his eyes to me and replied in thenegative.And then while still standing, I said chatting: "Will you heed what I say, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We, thepeople of Quraish used to have the upper hand over our women (wives), and when we came to thepeople whose women had the upper hand over them..."`Umar told the whole story (about his wife). "On that the Prophet (ﷺ) smiled." `Umar further said, "I thensaid, 'I went to Hafsa and said to her: Do not be tempted to imitate your companion (`Aisha) for she ismore beautiful than you and more beloved to the Prophet.' The Prophet (ﷺ) smiled again. When I saw himsmiling, I sat down and cast a glance at the room, and by Allah, I couldn't see anything of importancebut three hides. I said (to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) "Invoke Allah to make your followers prosperous for thePersians and the Byzantines have been made prosperous and given worldly luxuries, though they donot worship Allah?' The Prophet (ﷺ) was leaning then (and on hearing my speech he sat straight) and said,'O Ibn Al-Khattab! Do you have any doubt (that the Hereafter is better than this world)? These peoplehave been given rewards of their good deeds in this world only.' I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) . 'Please askAllah's forgiveness for me.The Prophet (ﷺ) did not go to his wives because of the secret which Hafsa had disclosed to `Aisha, and hesaid that he would not go to his wives for one month as he was angry with them when Allahadmonished him (for his oath that he would not approach Maria). When twenty-nine days had passed,the Prophet (ﷺ) went to Aisha first of all. She said to him, 'You took an oath that you would not come tous for one month, and today only twenty-nine days have passed, as I have been counting them day byday.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'The month is also of twenty-nine days.' That month consisted of twenty-ninedays. `Aisha said, 'When the Divine revelation of Choice was revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) started with me,saying to me, 'I am telling you something, but you need not hurry to give the reply till you can consultyour parents." `Aisha knew that her parents would not advise her to part with the Prophet (ﷺ) .The Prophet (ﷺ) said that Allah had said: 'O Prophet! Say To your wives; If you desire The life of thisworld And its glitter, ... then come! I will make a provision for you and set you free In a handsomemanner. But if you seek Allah And His Apostle, and The Home of the Hereafter, then Verily, Allahhas prepared For the good-doers amongst you A great reward.' (33.28) `Aisha said, 'Am I to consultmy parents about this? I indeed prefer Allah, His Apostle, and the Home of the Hereafter.' After thatthe Prophet (ﷺ) gave the choice to his other wives and they also gave the same reply as `Aisha did."