51 | 8 | 16 | Narrated `Urwa from `Aisha: The wives of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) were in two groups. One group consisted of `Aisha, Hafsa, Safiyya andSauda; and the other group consisted of Um Salama and the other wives of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). TheMuslims knew that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) loved `Aisha, so if any of them had a gift and wished to give toAllah's Messenger (ﷺ), he would delay it, till Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had come to `Aisha's home and then he wouldsend his gift to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in her home. The group of Um Salama discussed the matter togetherand decided that Um Salama should request Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to tell the people to send their gifts to himin whatever wife's house he was. Um Salama told Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) of what they had said, but he did notreply.Then they (those wives) asked Um Salama about it. She said, "He did not say anything to me." Theyasked her to talk to him again. She talked to him again when she met him on her day, but he gave noreply. When they asked her, she replied that he had given no reply. They said to her, "Talk to him tillhe gives you a reply." When it was her turn, she talked to him again. He then said to her, "Do not hurtme regarding Aisha, as the Divine Inspirations do not come to me on any of the beds except that ofAisha." On that Um Salama said, "I repent to Allah for hurting you." Then the group of Um Salamacalled Fatima, the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and sent her to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to say to him, "Yourwives request to treat them and the daughter of Abu Bakr on equal terms."Then Fatima conveyed the message to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O my daughter! Don't you love whomI love?" She replied in the affirmative and returned and told them of the situation. They requested herto go to him again but she refused. They then sent Zainab bint Jahsh who went to him and used harshwords saying, "Your wives request you to treat them and the daughter of Ibn Abu Quhafa on equalterms." On that she raised her voice and abused `Aisha to her face so much so that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)looked at `Aisha to see whether she would retort. `Aisha started replying to Zainab till she silencedher. The Prophet (ﷺ) then looked at `Aisha and said, "She is really the daughter of Abu Bakr."