52 | 15 | 25 | Narrated Aisha: (the wife of the Prophet) "Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) intended to go on a journey, he would draw lotsamongst his wives and would take with him the one upon whom the lot fell. During a Ghazwa of his,he drew lots amongst us and the lot fell upon me, and I proceeded with him after Allah had decreedthe use of the veil by women. I was carried in a Howdah (on the camel) and dismounted while still init. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was through with his Ghazwa and returned home, and we approached thecity of Medina, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered us to proceed at night. When the order of setting off wasgiven, I walked till I was past the army to answer the call of nature. After finishing I returned (to thecamp) to depart (with the others) and suddenly realized that my necklace over my chest was missing.So, I returned to look for it and was delayed because of that. The people who used to carry me on thecamel, came to my Howdah and put it on the back of the camel, thinking that I was in it, as, at thattime, women were light in weight, and thin and lean, and did not use to eat much. So, those people didnot feel the difference in the heaviness of the Howdah while lifting it, and they put it over the camel.At that time I was a young lady. They set the camel moving and proceeded on. I found my necklaceafter the army had gone, and came to their camp to find nobody. So, I went to the place where I usedto stay, thinking that they would discover my absence and come back in my search. While in thatstate, I felt sleepy and slept.Safwan bin Mu'attal As-Sulami Adh-Dhakwani was behind the army and reached my abode in themorning. When he saw a sleeping person, he came to me, and he used to see me before veiling. So, Igot up when I heard him saying, "Inna lil-lah-wa inn a ilaihi rajiun (We are for Allah, and we willreturn to Him)." He made his camel knell down. He got down from his camel, and put his leg on thefront legs of the camel and then I rode and sat over it. Safwan set out walking, leading the camel bythe rope till we reached the army who had halted to take rest at midday. Then whoever was meant fordestruction, fell into destruction, (some people accused me falsely) and the leader of the false accuserswas `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul. After that we returned to Medina, and I became ill for one monthwhile the people were spreading the forged statements of the false accusers. I was feeling during myailment as if I were not receiving the usual kindness from the Prophet (ﷺ) which I used to receive fromhim when I got sick. But he would come, greet and say, 'How is that (girl)?' I did not know anythingof what was going on till I recovered from my ailment and went out with Um Mistah to the Manasiwhere we used to answer the call of nature, and we used not to go to answer the call of nature exceptfrom night to night and that was before we had lavatories near to our houses. And this habit of ourswas similar to the habit of the old 'Arabs in the open country (or away from houses). So. I and UmMistah bint Ruhm went out walking. Um Mistah stumbled because of her long dress and on that shesaid, 'Let Mistah be ruined.' I said, 'You are saying a bad word. Why are you abusing a man who tookpart in (the battle of) Badr?' She said, 'O Hanata (you there) didn't you hear what they said?' Then shetold me the rumors of the false accusers.My sickness was aggravated, and when I returned home, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me, and aftergreeting he said, 'How is that (girl)?' I requested him to allow me to go to my parents. I wanted then tobe sure of the news through them I Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) allowed me, and I went to my parents and askedmy mother, 'What are the people talking about?' She said, 'O my daughter! Don't worry much aboutthis matter. By Allah, never is there a charming woman loved by her husband who has other wives,but the women would forge false news about her.' I said, 'Glorified be Allah! Are the people reallytaking of this matter?' That night I kept on weeping and could not sleep till morning. In the morningAllah's Messenger (ﷺ) called `Ali bin Abu Talib and Usama bin Zaid when he saw the Divine Inspirationdelayed, to consul them about divorcing his wife (i.e. `Aisha). Usama bin Zaid said what he knew ofthe good reputation of his wives and added, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Keep you wife, for, by Allah, weknow nothing about her but good.' `Ali bin Abu Talib said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allah has no imposedrestrictions on you, and there are many women other than she, yet you may ask the woman-servantwho will tell you the truth.' On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called Buraira and said, 'O Burair. Did you eversee anything which roused your suspicions about her?' Buraira said, 'No, by Allah Who has sent youwith the Truth, I have never seen in her anything faulty except that she is a girl of immature age, whosometimes sleeps and leaves the dough for the goats to eat.' On that day Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ascended thepulpit and requested that somebody support him in punishing `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul. Allah'sApostle said, 'Who will support me to punish that person (`Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul) who has hurtme by slandering the reputation of my family? By Allah, I know nothing about my family but good,and they have accused a person about whom I know nothing except good, and he never entered myhouse except in my company.'Sa`d bin Mu`adh got up and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! by Allah, I will relieve you from him. If thatman is from the tribe of the Aus, then we will chop his head off, and if he is from our brothers, theKhazraj, then order us, and we will fulfill your order.' On that Sa`d bin 'Ubada, the chief of theKhazraj and before this incident, he had been a pious man, got up, motivated by his zeal for his tribeand said, 'By Allah, you have told a lie; you cannot kill him, and you will never be able to kill him.'On that Usaid bin Al-Hadir got up and said (to Sa`d bin 'Ubada), 'By Allah! you are a liar. By Allah,we will kill him; and you are a hypocrite, defending the hypocrites.' On this the two tribes of Aus andKhazraj got excited and were about to fight each other, while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was standing on thepulpit. He got down and quieted them till they became silent and he kept quiet. On that day I kept onweeping so much so that neither did my tears stop, nor could I sleep.In the morning my parents were with me and I had wept for two nights and a day, till I thought myliver would burst from weeping. While they were sitting with me and I was weeping, an Ansariwoman asked my permission to enter, and I allowed her to come in. She sat down and started weepingwith me. While we were in this state, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came and sat down and he had never sat with mesince the day they forged the accusation. No revelation regarding my case came to him for a month.He recited Tashah-hud (i.e. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah and Muhammad is HisApostle) and then said, 'O `Aisha! I have been informed such-and-such about you; if you are innocent,then Allah will soon reveal your innocence, and if you have committed a sin, then repent to Allah andask Him to forgive you, for when a person confesses his sin and asks Allah for forgiveness, Allahaccepts his repentance.' When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished his speech my tears ceased completely andthere remained not even a single drop of it. I requested my father to reply to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on mybehalf. My father said, By Allah, I do not know what to say to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).' I said to my mother,'Talk to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on my behalf.' She said, 'By Allah, I do not know what to say to Allah'sApostle.I was a young girl and did not have much knowledge of the Qur'an. I said. 'I know, by Allah, that youhave listened to what people are saying and that has been planted in your minds and you have taken itas a truth. Now, if I told you that I am innocent and Allah knows that I am innocent, you would notbelieve me and if I confessed to you falsely that I am guilty, and Allah knows that I am innocent youwould believe me. By Allah, I don't compare my situation with you except to the situation of Joseph'sfather (i.e. Jacob) who said, 'So (for me) patience is most fitting against that which you assert and it isAllah (Alone) whose help can be sought.' Then I turned to the other side of my bed hoping that Allahwould prove my innocence. By Allah I never thought that Allah would reveal Divine Inspiration inmy case, as I considered myself too inferior to be talked of in the Holy Qur'an. I had hoped thatAllah's Messenger (ﷺ) might have a dream in which Allah would prove my innocence. By Allah, Allah'sApostle had not got up and nobody had left the house before the Divine Inspiration came to Allah'sApostle. So, there overtook him the same state which used to overtake him, (when he used to have, onbeing inspired divinely). He was sweating so much so that the drops of the sweat were dropping likepearls though it was a (cold) wintry day. When that state of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was over, he was smilingand the first word he said, `Aisha! Thank Allah, for Allah has declared your innocence.' My mothertold me to go to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . I replied, 'By Allah I will not go to him and will not thank but Allah.'So Allah revealed: "Verily! They who spread the slander are a gang among you . . ." (24.11)When Allah gave the declaration of my Innocence, Abu Bakr, who used to provide for Mistah binUthatha for he was his relative, said, 'By Allah, I will never provide Mistah with anything because ofwhat he said about Aisha.' But Allah later revealed: --"And let not those who are good and wealthy among you swear not to help their kinsmen, those inneed and those who left their homes in Allah's Cause. Let them forgive and overlook. Do you not wishthat Allah should forgive you? Verily! Allah is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful." (24.22) After that AbuBakr said, 'Yes ! By Allah! I like that Allah should forgive me,' and resumed helping Mistah whom heused to help before.Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) also asked Zainab bint Jahsh (i.e. the Prophet's wife about me saying, 'What do youknow and what did you see?' She replied, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I refrain to claim hearing or seeing whatI have not heard or seen. By Allah, I know nothing except goodness about Aisha." Aisha further added"Zainab was competing with me (in her beauty and the Prophet's love), yet Allah protected her (frombeing malicious), for she had piety."