53 | 6 | 9 | Narrated Al-Bara: When the Prophet (ﷺ) intended to perform `Umra in the month of Dhul-Qada, the people of Mecca did notlet him enter Mecca till he settled the matter with them by promising to stay in it for three days only.When the document of treaty was written, the following was mentioned: 'These are the terms onwhich Muhammad, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) agreed (to make peace).' They said, "We will not agree to this, forif we believed that you are Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) we would not prevent you, but you are Muhammad bin`Abdullah." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and also Muhammad bin `Abdullah." Then hesaid to `Ali, "Rub off (the words) 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)' ", but `Ali said, "No, by Allah, I will never rub offyour name." So, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took the document and wrote, 'This is what Muhammad bin`Abdullah has agreed upon: No arms will be brought into Mecca except in their cases, and nobodyfrom the people of Mecca will be allowed to go with him (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) ) even if he wished tofollow him and he (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) will not prevent any of his companions from staying in Mecca if thelatter wants to stay.' When the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca and the time limit passed, the Meccans went to`Ali and said, "Tell your Friend (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) ) to go out, as the period (agreed to) has passed." So,the Prophet (ﷺ) went out of Mecca. The daughter of Hamza ran after them (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) and hiscompanions), calling, "O Uncle! O Uncle!" `Ali received her and led her by the hand and said toFatima, "Take your uncle's daughter." Zaid and Ja`far quarreled about her. `Ali said, "I have moreright to her as she is my uncle's daughter." Ja`far said, "She is my uncle's daughter, and her aunt is mywife." Zaid said, "She is my brother's daughter." The Prophet (ﷺ) judged that she should be given to heraunt, and said that the aunt was like the mother. He then said to 'All, "You are from me and I am fromyou", and said to Ja`far, "You resemble me both in character and appearance", and said to Zaid, "Youare our brother (in faith) and our freed slave."