54 | 15 | 19 | Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and Marwan: (whose narrations attest each other) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out at the time of Al-Hudaibiya (treaty), andwhen they proceeded for a distance, he said, "Khalid bin Al-Walid leading the cavalry of Quraishconstituting the front of the army, is at a place called Al-Ghamim, so take the way on the right." ByAllah, Khalid did not perceive the arrival of the Muslims till the dust arising from the march of theMuslim army reached him, and then he turned back hurriedly to inform Quraish. The Prophet (ﷺ) went onadvancing till he reached the Thaniya (i.e. a mountainous way) through which one would go to them(i.e. people of Quraish). The she-camel of the Prophet (ﷺ) sat down. The people tried their best to causethe she-camel to get up but in vain, so they said, "Al-Qaswa' (i.e. the she-camel's name) has becomestubborn! Al-Qaswa' has become stubborn!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Al-Qaswa' has not become stubborn,for stubbornness is not her habit, but she was stopped by Him Who stopped the elephant." Then hesaid, "By the Name of Him in Whose Hands my soul is, if they (i.e. the Quraish infidels) ask meanything which will respect the ordinances of Allah, I will grant it to them."The Prophet (ﷺ) then rebuked the she-camel and she got up. The Prophet (ﷺ) changed his way till hedismounted at the farthest end of Al-Hudaibiya at a pit (i.e. well) containing a little water which thepeople used in small amounts, and in a short while the people used up all its water and complained toAllah's Messenger (ﷺ); of thirst. The Prophet (ﷺ) took an arrow out of his arrow-case and ordered them to put thearrow in that pit. By Allah, the water started and continued sprouting out till all the people quenchedtheir thirst and returned with satisfaction. While they were still in that state, Budail bin Warqa-al-Khuza`i came with some persons from his tribe Khuza`a and they were the advisers of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)who would keep no secret from him and were from the people of Tihama. Budail said, "I left Ka`b binLuai and 'Amir bin Luai residing at the profuse water of Al-Hudaibiya and they had milch camels (ortheir women and children) with them, and will wage war against you, and will prevent you fromvisiting the Ka`ba."Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We have not come to fight anyone, but to perform the `Umra. No doubt, the warhas weakened Quraish and they have suffered great losses, so if they wish, I will conclude a truce withthem, during which they should refrain from interfering between me and the people (i.e. the 'Arabinfidels other than Quraish), and if I have victory over those infidels, Quraish will have the option toembrace Islam as the other people do, if they wish; they will at least get strong enough to fight. But ifthey do not accept the truce, by Allah in Whose Hands my life is, I will fight with them defending myCause till I get killed, but (I am sure) Allah will definitely make His Cause victorious." Budail said, "Iwill inform them of what you have said." So, he set off till he reached Quraish and said, "We havecome from that man (i.e. Muhammad) whom we heard saying something which we will disclose toyou if you should like." Some of the fools among Quraish shouted that they were not in need of thisinformation, but the wiser among them said, "Relate what you heard him saying." Budail said, "Iheard him saying so-and-so," relating what the Prophet (ﷺ) had told him.`Urwa bin Mas`ud got up and said, "O people! Aren't you the sons? They said, "Yes." He added, "AmI not the father?" They said, "Yes." He said, "Do you mistrust me?" They said, "No." He said, "Don'tyou know that I invited the people of `Ukaz for your help, and when they refused I brought myrelatives and children and those who obeyed me (to help you)?" They said, "Yes." He said, "Well, thisman (i.e. the Prophet) has offered you a reasonable proposal, you'd better accept it and allow me tomeet him." They said, "You may meet him." So, he went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and started talking to him.The Prophet (ﷺ) told him almost the same as he had told Budail. Then `Urwa said, "O Muhammad! Won'tyou feel any scruple in extirpating your relations? Have you ever heard of anyone amongst the Arabsextirpating his relatives before you? On the other hand, if the reverse should happen, (nobody will aidyou, for) by Allah, I do not see (with you) dignified people, but people from various tribes who wouldrun away leaving you alone." Hearing that, Abu Bakr abused him and said, "Do you say we would runand leave the Prophet (ﷺ) alone?" `Urwa said, "Who is that man?" They said, "He is Abu Bakr." `Urwasaid to Abu Bakr, "By Him in Whose Hands my life is, were it not for the favor which you did to meand which I did not compensate, I would retort on you." `Urwa kept on talking to the Prophet (ﷺ) andseizing the Prophet's beard as he was talking while Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba was standing near the headof the Prophet, holding a sword and wearing a helmet. Whenever `Urwa stretched his hand towardsthe beard of the Prophet, Al-Mughira would hit his hand with the handle of the sword and say (to`Urwa), "Remove your hand from the beard of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." `Urwa raised his head and asked,"Who is that?" The people said, "He is Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba." `Urwa said, "O treacherous! Am I notdoing my best to prevent evil consequences of your treachery?"Before embracing Islam Al-Mughira was in the company of some people. He killed them and tooktheir property and came (to Medina) to embrace Islam. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him, "As regards yourIslam, I accept it, but as for the property I do not take anything of it. (As it was taken through treason).`Urwa then started looking at the Companions of the Prophet. By Allah, whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)spat, the spittle would fall in the hand of one of them (i.e. the Prophet's companions) who would rub iton his face and skin; if he ordered them they would carry his orders immediately; if he performedablution, they would struggle to take the remaining water; and when they spoke to him, they wouldlower their voices and would not look at his face constantly out of respect. `Urwa returned to hispeople and said, "O people! By Allah, I have been to the kings and to Caesar, Khosrau and An-Najashi, yet I have never seen any of them respected by his courtiers as much as Muhammad isrespected by his companions.By Allah, if he spat, the spittle would fall in the hand of one of them (i.e. the Prophet's companions)who would rub it on his face and skin; if he ordered them, they would carry out his order immediately;if he performed ablution, they would struggle to take the remaining water; and when they spoke, theywould lower their voices and would not look at his face constantly out of respect." `Urwa added, "Nodoubt, he has presented to you a good reasonable offer, so please accept it." A man from the tribe ofBani Kinana said, "Allow me to go to him," and they allowed him, and when he approached theProphet and his companions, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He is so-and-so who belongs to the tribe thatrespects the Budn (i.e. camels of the sacrifice).So, bring the Budn in front of him." So, the Budn were brought before him and the people receivedhim while they were reciting Talbiya. When he saw that scene, he said, "Glorified be Allah! It is notfair to prevent these people from visiting the Ka`ba." When he returned to his people, he said, 'I sawthe Budn garlanded (with colored knotted ropes) and marked (with stabs on their backs). I do not thinkit is advisable to prevent them from visiting the Ka`ba." Another person called Mikraz bin Hafs got upand sought their permission to go to Muhammad, and they allowed him, too. When he approached theMuslims, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Here is Mikraz and he is a vicious man." Mikraz started talking to theProphet and as he was talking, Suhail bin `Amr came.When Suhail bin `Amr came, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Now the matter has become easy." Suhail said to theProphet "Please conclude a peace treaty with us." So, the Prophet (ﷺ) called the clerk and said to him,"Write: By the Name of Allah, the most Beneficent, the most Merciful." Suhail said, "As for'Beneficent,' by Allah, I do not know what it means. So write: By Your Name O Allah, as you used towrite previously." The Muslims said, "By Allah, we will not write except: By the Name of Allah, themost Beneficent, the most Merciful." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Write: By Your Name O Allah." Then hedictated, "This is the peace treaty which Muhammad, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has concluded." Suhail said, "ByAllah, if we knew that you are Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) we would not prevent you from visiting the Ka`ba, andwould not fight with you. So, write: "Muhammad bin `Abdullah." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Allah! I amApostle of Allah even if you people do not believe me. Write: Muhammad bin `Abdullah."(Az-Zuhri said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) accepted all those things, as he had already said that he would accepteverything they would demand if it respects the ordinance of Allah, (i.e. by letting him and hiscompanions perform `Umra.)" The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Suhail, "On the condition that you allow us to visitthe House (i.e. Ka`ba) so that we may perform Tawaf around it." Suhail said, "By Allah, we will not(allow you this year) so as not to give chance to the 'Arabs to say that we have yielded to you, but wewill allow you next year." So, the Prophet (ﷺ) got that written.Then Suhail said, "We also stipulate that you should return to us whoever comes to you from us, evenif he embraced your religion." The Muslims said, "Glorified be Allah! How will such a person bereturned to the pagans after he has become a Muslim? While they were in this state Abu- Jandal binSuhail bin `Amr came from the valley of Mecca staggering with his fetters and fell down amongst theMuslims. Suhail said, "O Muhammad! This is the very first term with which we make peace with you,i.e. you shall return Abu Jandal to me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The peace treaty has not been written yet."Suhail said, "I will never allow you to keep him." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes, do." He said, "I won't do.:Mikraz said, "We allow you (to keep him)." Abu Jandal said, "O Muslims! Will I be returned to thepagans though I have come as a Muslim? Don't you see how much I have suffered?"(continued...)(continuing... 1): -3.891:... ...Abu Jandal had been tortured severely for the Cause of Allah. `Umar bin Al-Khattab said, "I went tothe Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'Aren't you truly the Messenger of Allah?' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Yes, indeed.' I said,'Isn't our Cause just and the cause of the enemy unjust?' He said, 'Yes.' I said, 'Then why should we behumble in our religion?' He said, 'I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and I do not disobey Him, and He will makeme victorious.' I said, 'Didn't you tell us that we would go to the Ka`ba and perform Tawaf around it?'He said, 'Yes, but did I tell you that we would visit the Ka`ba this year?' I said, 'No.' He said, 'So youwill visit it and perform Tawaf around it?' " `Umar further said, "I went to Abu Bakr and said, 'O AbuBakr! Isn't he truly Allah's Prophet?' He replied, 'Yes.' I said, 'Then why should we be humble in ourreligion?' He said, 'Indeed, he is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he does not disobey his Lord, and He will makehim victorious. Adhere to him as, by Allah, he is on the right.' I said, 'Was he not telling us that wewould go to the Ka`ba and perform Tawaf around it?' He said, 'Yes, but did he tell you that you wouldgo to the Ka`ba this year?' I said, 'No.' He said, "You will go to Ka`ba and perform Tawaf around it."(Az-Zuhri said, " `Umar said, 'I performed many good deeds as expiation for the improper questions Iasked them.' ")When the writing of the peace treaty was concluded, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to his companions, "Get upand' slaughter your sacrifices and get your head shaved." By Allah none of them got up, and theProphet repeated his order thrice. When none of them got up, he left them and went to Um Salama andtold her of the people's attitudes towards him. Um Salama said, "O the Prophet (ﷺ) of Allah! Do you wantyour order to be carried out? Go out and don't say a word to anybody till you have slaughtered yoursacrifice and call your barber to shave your head." So, the Prophet (ﷺ) went out and did not talk to anyoneof them till he did that, i.e. slaughtered the sacrifice and called his barber who shaved his head. Seeingthat, the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) got up, slaughtered their sacrifices, and started shaving the headsof one another, and there was so much rush that there was a danger of killing each other. Then somebelieving women came (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ); and Allah revealed the following Divine Verses:--"O you who believe, when the believing women come to you as emigrants examine them . . ." (60.10)`Umar then divorced two wives of his who were infidels. Later on Muawiya bin Abu Sufyan marriedone of them, and Safwan bin Umaiya married the other. When the Prophet (ﷺ) returned to Medina, AbuBasir, a new Muslim convert from Quraish came to him. The Infidels sent in his pursuit two men whosaid (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ), "Abide by the promise you gave us." So, the Prophet (ﷺ) handed him over to them.They took him out (of the City) till they reached Dhul-Hulaifa where they dismounted to eat somedates they had with them. Abu Basir said to one of them, "By Allah, O so-and-so, I see you have afine sword." The other drew it out (of the scabbard) and said, "By Allah, it is very fine and I have triedit many times." Abu Basir said, "Let me have a look at it."When the other gave it to him, he hit him with it till he died, and his companion ran away till he cameto Medina and entered the Mosque running. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw him he said, "This manappears to have been frightened." When he reached the Prophet (ﷺ) he said, "My companion has beenmurdered and I would have been murdered too." Abu Basir came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), byAllah, Allah has made you fulfill your obligations by your returning me to them (i.e. the Infidels), butAllah has saved me from them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Woe to his mother! what excellent war kindler hewould be, should he only have supporters." When Abu Basir heard that he understood that the Prophet (ﷺ)would return him to them again, so he set off till he reached the seashore. Abu Jandal bin Suhail gothimself released from them (i.e. infidels) and joined Abu Basir. So, whenever a man from Quraishembraced Islam he would follow Abu Basir till they formed a strong group. By Allah, whenever theyheard about a caravan of Quraish heading towards Sham, they stopped it and attacked and killed them(i.e. infidels) and took their properties. The people of Quraish sent a message to the Prophet (ﷺ)requesting him for the Sake of Allah and Kith and kin to send for (i.e. Abu Basir and his companions)promising that whoever (amongst them) came to the Prophet (ﷺ) would be secure. So the Prophet (ﷺ) sent forthem (i.e. Abu Basir's companions) and Allah I revealed the following Divine Verses:"And it is He Who Has withheld their hands from you and your hands From them in the midst ofMecca, After He made you the victorious over them. ... the unbelievers had pride and haughtiness, intheir hearts ... the pride and haughtiness of the time of ignorance." (48.24-26) And their pride andhaughtiness was that they did not confess (write in the treaty) that he (i.e. Muhammad) was theProphet of Allah and refused to write: "In the Name of Allah, the most Beneficent, the MostMerciful," and they (the mushriks) prevented them (the Muslims) from visiting the House (the Ka`bah).