57 | 13 | 38 | Narrated `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair: When Az-Zubair got up during the battle of Al-Jamal, he called me and I stood up beside him, and hesaid to me, "O my son! Today one will be killed either as an oppressor or as an oppressed one. I seethat I will be killed as an oppressed one. My biggest worry is my debts. Do you think, if we pay thedebts, there will be something left for us from our money?" Az-Zubair added, "O my son! Sell ourproperty and pay my debts." Az-Zubair then willed one-third of his property and willed one-third ofthat portion to his sons; namely, `Abdullah's sons. He said, "One-third of the one third. If any propertyis left after the payment of the debts, one-third (of the one-third of what is left) is to be given to yoursons." (Hisham, a sub-narrator added, "Some of the sons of `Abdullah were equal in age to the sons ofAz-Zubair e.g. Khubaib and `Abbas. `Abdullah had nine sons and nine daughters at that time." (Thenarrator `Abdullah added:) My father (Az-Zubair) went on drawing my attention to his debts saying,"If you should fail to pay part of the debts, appeal to my Master to help you." By Allah! I could notunderstand what he meant till I asked, "O father! Who is your Master?" He replied, "Allah (is myMaster)."By Allah, whenever I had any difficulty regarding his debts, I would say, "Master of Az-Zubair! Payhis debts on his behalf ." and Allah would (help me to) pay it. Az-Zubair was martyred leaving noDinar or Dirham but two pieces of land, one of which was (called) Al-Ghaba, and eleven houses inMedina, two in Basra, one in Kufa and one in Egypt. In fact, the source of the debt which he owedwas, that if somebody brought some money to deposit with him. Az-Zubair would say, "No, (i won'tkeep it as a trust), but I take it as a debt, for I am afraid it might be lost." Az-Zubair was neverappointed governor or collector of the tax of Kharaj or any other similar thing, but he collected hiswealth (from the war booty he gained) during the holy battles he took part in, in the company of theProphet, Abu Bakr, `Umar, and `Uthman. (`Abdullah bin Az-Zubair added:) When I counted his debt,it turned to be two million and two hundred thousand. (The sub-narrator added:) Hakim bin Hizammet `Abdullah bin Zubair and asked, "O my nephew! How much is the debt of my brother?"`Abdullah kept it as a secret and said, "One hundred thousand," Hakim said, "By Allah! I don't thinkyour property will cover it." On that `Abdullah said to him, "What if it is two million and two hundredthousand?"Hakim said, "I don't think you can pay it; so if you are unable to pay all of it, I will help you." Az-Zubair had already bought Al-Ghaba for one hundred and seventy thousand. `Abdullah sold it for onemillion and six hundred thousand. Then he called the people saying, "Any person who has any moneyclaim on Az-Zubair should come to us in Al-Ghaba." There came to him `Abdullah bin Ja`far whomAz-Zubair owed four hundred thousand. He said to `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair, "If you wish I willforgive you the debt." `Abdullah (bin Az-Zubair) said, "No." Then Ibn Ja`far said, "If you wish youcan defer the payment if you should defer the payment of any debt." Ibn Az-Zubair said, "No."`Abdullah bin Ja`far said, "Give me a piece of the land." `Abdullah bin AzZubair said (to him),"Yours is the land extending from this place to this place." So, `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair sold some ofthe property (including the houses) and paid his debt perfectly, retaining four and a half shares fromthe land (i.e. Al-Ghaba). He then went to Mu'awlya while `Amr bin `Uthman, Al-Mundhir bin Az-Zubair and Ibn Zam`a were sitting with him. Mu'awiya asked, "At what price have you appraised Al-Ghaba?" He said, "One hundred thousand for each share," Muawiya asked, "How many shares havebeen left?" `Abdullah replied, "Four and a half shares."Al-Mundhir bin Az-Zubair said, "I would like to buy one share for one hundred thousand." `Amr bin`Uthman said, "I would like to buy one share for one hundred thousand." Ibn Zam`a said, "I wouldlike to buy one share for one hundred thousand." Muawiya said, "How much is left now?" `Abdullahreplied, "One share and a half." Muawiya said, "I would like to buy it for one hundred and fiftythousand." `Abdullah also sold his part to Muawiya six hundred thousand. When Ibn AzZubair hadpaid all the debts. Az-Zubair's sons said to him, "Distribute our inheritance among us." He said, "No,by Allah, I will not distribute it among you till I announce in four successive Hajj seasons, 'Wouldthose who have money claims on Az-Zubair come so that we may pay them their debt." So, he startedto announce that in public in every Hajj season, and when four years had elapsed, he distributed theinheritance among the inheritors. Az-Zubair had four wives, and after the one-third of his propertywas excluded (according to the will), each of his wives received one million and two hundredthousand. So the total amount of his property was fifty million and two hundred thousand.