58 | 1 | 4 | Narrated Jubair bin Haiya: `Umar sent the Muslims to the great countries to fight the pagans. When Al-Hurmuzan embracedIslam, `Umar said to him. "I would like to consult you regarding these countries which I intend toinvade." Al-Hurmuzan said, "Yes, the example of these countries and their inhabitants who are theenemies. of the Muslims, is like a bird with a head, two wings and two legs; If one of its wings gotbroken, it would get up over its two legs, with one wing and the head; and if the other wing gotbroken, it would get up with two legs and a head, but if its head got destroyed, then the two legs, twowings and the head would become useless. The head stands for Khosrau, and one wing stands forCaesar and the other wing stands for Faris. So, order the Muslims to go towards Khosrau." So, `Umarsent us (to Khosrau) appointing An-Nu`man bin Muqrin as our commander. When we reached theland of the enemy, the representative of Khosrau came out with forty-thousand warriors, and aninterpreter got up saying, "Let one of you talk to me!"Al-Mughira replied, "Ask whatever you wish." The other asked, "Who are you?" Al-Mughira replied,"We are some people from the Arabs; we led a hard, miserable, disastrous life: we used to suck thehides and the date stones from hunger; we used to wear clothes made up of fur of camels and hair ofgoats, and to worship trees and stones. While we were in this state, the Lord of the Heavens and theEarths, Elevated is His Remembrance and Majestic is His Highness, sent to us from among ourselvesa Prophet whose father and mother are known to us. Our Prophet, the Messenger of our Lord, hasordered us to fight you till you worship Allah Alone or give Jizya (i.e. tribute); and our Prophet hasinformed us that our Lord says:-- "Whoever amongst us is killed (i.e. martyred), shall go to Paradiseto lead such a luxurious life as he has never seen, and whoever amongst us remain alive, shall becomeyour master." (Al-Mughira, then blamed An-Nu`man for delaying the attack and)