60 | 51 | 131 | Narrated Abu Huraira: that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Allah willed to test three Israelis who were a Leper, a blind manand a bald-headed man. So, he sent them an angel who came to the leper and said, 'What thing do youlike most?' He replied, 'Good color and good skin, for the people have a strong aversion to me.' Theangel touched him and his illness was cured, and he was given a good color and beautiful skin. Theangel asked him, 'What kind of property do you like best?' He replied, 'Camels (or cows).' (Thenarrator is in doubt, for either the leper or the bald-headed man demanded camels and the otherdemanded cows). So he (i.e. the leper) was given a pregnant she-camel, and the angel said (to him),'May Allah bless you in it.'The angel then went to the bald-headed man and said, 'What thing do you like most?' He said, 'I likegood hair and wish to be cured of this disease, for the people feel repulsion for me.' The angel touchedhim and his illness was cured, and he was given good hair. The angel asked (him), 'What kind ofproperty do you like best?' He replied, 'Cows,' The angel gave him a pregnant cow and said, 'MayAllah bless you in it.' The angel went to the blind man and asked, 'What thing do you like best?' Hesaid, '(I like) that Allah may restore my eye-sight to me so that I may see the people.' The angeltouched his eyes and Allah gave him back his eye-sight. The angel asked him, 'What kind of propertydo you like best?' He replied, 'Sheep.' The angel gave him a pregnant sheep. Afterwards, all the threepregnant animals gave birth to young ones, and multiplied and brought forth so much that one of the(three) men had a herd of camels filling a valley, and one had a herd of cows filling a valley, and onehad a flock of sheep filling a valley. Then the angel, disguised in the shape and appearance of a leper,went to the leper and said, I am a poor man, who has lost all means of livelihood while on a journey.So none will satisfy my need except Allah and then you. In the Name of Him Who has given you suchnice color and beautiful skin, and so much property, I ask you to give me a camel so that I may reachmy destination. The man replied, 'I have many obligations (so I cannot give you).' The angel said, 'Ithink I know you; were you not a leper to whom the people had a strong aversion? Weren't you a poorman, and then Allah gave you (all this property).' He replied, '(This is all wrong), I got this propertythrough inheritance from my fore-fathers.' The angel said, 'If you are telling a lie, then let Allah makeyou as you were before. 'Then the angel, disguised in the shape and appearance of a bald man, went to the bald man and said tohim the same as he told the first one, and he too answered the same as the first one did. The angelsaid, 'If you are telling a lie, then let Allah make you as you were before.'The angel, disguised in the shape of a blind man, went to the blind man and said, 'I am a poor man anda traveler, whose means of livelihood have been exhausted while on a journey. I have nobody to helpme except Allah, and after Him, you yourself. I ask you in the Name of Him Who has given you backyour eye-sight to give me a sheep, so that with its help, I may complete my journey.' The man said, 'Nodoubt, I was blind and Allah gave me back my eye-sight; I was poor and Allah made me rich; so takeanything you wish from my property. By Allah, I will not stop you for taking anything (you need) ofmy property which you may take for Allah's sake.' The angel replied, 'Keep your property with you.You (i.e the three men) have been tested, and Allah is pleased with you and is angry with your twocompanions."