60 | 9 | 39 | Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When Abraham had differences with his wife), (because of her jealousy of Hajar, Ishmael's mother),he took Ishmael and his mother and went away. They had a water-skin with them containing somewater, Ishmael's mother used to drink water from the water-skin so that her milk would increase forher child. When Abraham reached Mecca, he made her sit under a tree and afterwards returned home.Ishmael's mother followed him, and when they reached Kada', she called him from behind, 'OAbraham! To whom are you leaving us?' He replied, '(I am leaving you) to Allah's (Care).'She said, 'I am satisfied to be with Allah.' She returned to her place and started drinking water fromthe water-skin, and her milk increased for her child. When the water had all been used up, she said toherself, 'I'd better go and look so that I may see somebody.' She ascended the Safa mountain andlooked, hoping to see somebody, but in vain. When she came down to the valley, she ran till shereached the Marwa mountain. She ran to and fro (between the two mountains) many times. They shesaid to herself, 'i'd better go and see the state of the child,' she went and found it in a state of one onthe point of dying. She could not endure to watch it dying and said (to herself), 'If I go and look, I mayfind somebody.'She went and ascended the Safa mountain and looked for a long while but could not find anybody.Thus she completed seven rounds (of running) between Safa and Marwa. Again she said (to herself),'I'd better go back and see the state of the child.' But suddenly she heard a voice, and she said to thatstrange voice, 'Help us if you can offer any help.' Lo! It was Gabriel (who had made the voice).Gabriel hit the earth with his heel like this (Ibn `Abbas hit the earth with his heel to Illustrate it), andso the water gushed out. Ishmael's mother was astonished and started digging. (Abu Al-Qasim) (i.e.the Prophet) said, "If she had left the water, (flow naturally without her intervention), it would havebeen flowing on the surface of the earth.") Ishmael's mother started drinking from the water and hermilk increased for her child . Afterwards some people of the tribe of Jurhum, while passing throughthe bottom of the valley, saw some birds, and that astonished them, and they said, 'Birds can only befound at a place where there is water.'They sent a messenger who searched the place and found the water, and returned to inform them aboutit. Then they all went to her and said, 'O ishmael's mother! Will you allow us to be with you (or dwellwith you)?' (And thus they stayed there.) Later on her boy reached the age of puberty and married alady from them. Then an idea occurred to Abraham which he disclosed to his wife (Sarah), 'I want tocall on my dependents I left (at Mecca).' When he went there, he greeted (Ishmael's wife) and said,'Where is Ishmael?' She replied, 'He has gone out hunting.' Abraham said (to her), 'When he comes,tell him to change the threshold of his gate.' When he came, she told him the same whereupon Ishmaelsaid to her, 'You are the threshold, so go to your family (i.e. you are divorced).' Again Abrahamthought of visiting his dependents whom he had left (at Mecca), and he told his wife (Sarah) of hisintentions.Abraham came to Ishmael's house and asked. "Where is Ishmael?" Ishmael's wife replied, "He hasgone out hunting," and added, "Will you stay (for some time) and have something to eat and drink?'Abraham asked, 'What is your food and what is your drink?' She replied, 'Our food is meat and ourdrink is water.' He said, 'O Allah! Bless their meals and their drink." Abu Al-Qa-sim (i.e. Prophet)said, "Because of Abraham's invocation there are blessings (in Mecca)." Once more Abraham thoughtof visiting his family he had left (at Mecca), so he told his wife (Sarah) of his decision. He went andfound Ishmael behind the Zamzam well, mending his arrows. He said, "O Ishmael, Your Lord hasordered me to build a house for Him." Ishmael said, "Obey (the order of) your Lord."Abraham said, "Allah has also ordered me that you should help me therein." Ishmael said, "Then I willdo." So, both of them rose and Abraham started building (the Ka`ba) while Ishmael went on handinghim the stones, and both of them were saying, "O our Lord ! Accept (this service) from us, Verily,You are the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing." (2.127). When the building became high and the old man(i.e. Abraham) could no longer lift the stones (to such a high position), he stood over the stone of Al-Maqam and Ishmael carried on handing him the stones, and both of them were saying, 'O our Lord!Accept (this service) from us, Verily You are All-Hearing, All-Knowing." (2.127)