60 | 9 | 37 | Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The first lady to use a girdle was the mother of Ishmael. She used a girdle so that she might hide hertracks from Sarah. Abraham brought her and her son Ishmael while she was suckling him, to a placenear the Ka`ba under a tree on the spot of Zamzam, at the highest place in the mosque. During thosedays there was nobody in Mecca, nor was there any water So he made them sit over there and placednear them a leather bag containing some dates, and a small water-skin containing some water, and setout homeward. Ishmael's mother followed him saying, "O Abraham! Where are you going, leaving usin this valley where there is no person whose company we may enjoy, nor is there anything (toenjoy)?" She repeated that to him many times, but he did not look back at her Then she asked him,"Has Allah ordered you to do so?" He said, "Yes." She said, "Then He will not neglect us," andreturned while Abraham proceeded onwards, and on reaching the Thaniya where they could not seehim, he faced the Ka`ba, and raising both hands, invoked Allah saying the following prayers:'O our Lord! I have made some of my offspring dwell in a valley without cultivation, by Your SacredHouse (Ka`ba at Mecca) in order, O our Lord, that they may offer prayer perfectly. So fill some heartsamong men with love towards them, and (O Allah) provide them with fruits, so that they may givethanks.' (14.37) Ishmael's mother went on suckling Ishmael and drinking from the water (she had).When the water in the water-skin had all been used up, she became thirsty and her child also becamethirsty. She started looking at him (i.e. Ishmael) tossing in agony; She left him, for she could notendure looking at him, and found that the mountain of Safa was the nearest mountain to her on thatland. She stood on it and started looking at the valley keenly so that she might see somebody, but shecould not see anybody. Then she descended from Safa and when she reached the valley, she tucked upher robe and ran in the valley like a person in distress and trouble, till she crossed the valley andreached the Marwa mountain where she stood and started looking, expecting to see somebody, but shecould not see anybody. She repeated that (running between Safa and Marwa) seven times."The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is the source of the tradition of the walking of people between them (i.e. Safaand Marwa). When she reached the Marwa (for the last time) she heard a voice and she asked herselfto be quiet and listened attentively. She heard the voice again and said, 'O, (whoever you may be)!You have made me hear your voice; have you got something to help me?" And behold! She saw anangel at the place of Zamzam, digging the earth with his heel (or his wing), till water flowed from thatplace. She started to make something like a basin around it, using her hand in this way, and startedfilling her water-skin with water with her hands, and the water was flowing out after she had scoopedsome of it."The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "May Allah bestow Mercy on Ishmael's mother! Had she let the Zamzam (flowwithout trying to control it) (or had she not scooped from that water) (to fill her water-skin), Zamzamwould have been a stream flowing on the surface of the earth." The Prophet (ﷺ) further added, "Then shedrank (water) and suckled her child. The angel said to her, 'Don't be afraid of being neglected, for thisis the House of Allah which will be built by this boy and his father, and Allah never neglects Hispeople.' The House (i.e. Ka`ba) at that time was on a high place resembling a hillock, and whentorrents came, they flowed to its right and left. She lived in that way till some people from the tribe ofJurhum or a family from Jurhum passed by her and her child, as they (i.e. the Jurhum people) werecoming through the way of Kada'. They landed in the lower part of Mecca where they saw a bird thathad the habit of flying around water and not leaving it. They said, 'This bird must be flying aroundwater, though we know that there is no water in this valley.' They sent one or two messengers whodiscovered the source of water, and returned to inform them of the water. So, they all came (towardsthe water)." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Ishmael's mother was sitting near the water. They asked her, 'Do youallow us to stay with you?" She replied, 'Yes, but you will have no right to possess the water.' Theyagreed to that." The Prophet (ﷺ) further said, "Ishmael's mother was pleased with the whole situation asshe used to love to enjoy the company of the people. So, they settled there, and later on they sent fortheir families who came and settled with them so that some families became permanent residentsthere. The child (i.e. Ishmael) grew up and learnt Arabic from them and (his virtues) caused them tolove and admire him as he grew up, and when he reached the age of puberty they made him marry awoman from amongst them.After Ishmael's mother had died, Abraham came after Ishmael's marriage in order to see his familythat he had left before, but he did not find Ishmael there. When he asked Ishmael's wife about him, shereplied, 'He has gone in search of our livelihood.' Then he asked her about their way of living and theircondition, and she replied, 'We are living in misery; we are living in hardship and destitution,'complaining to him. He said, 'When your husband returns, convey my salutation to him and tell him tochange the threshold of the gate (of his house).' When Ishmael came, he seemed to have feltsomething unusual, so he asked his wife, 'Has anyone visited you?' She replied, 'Yes, an old man ofso-and-so description came and asked me about you and I informed him, and he asked about our stateof living, and I told him that we were living in a hardship and poverty.' On that Ishmael said, 'Did headvise you anything?' She replied, 'Yes, he told me to convey his salutation to you and to tell you tochange the threshold of your gate.' Ishmael said, 'It was my father, and he has ordered me to divorceyou. Go back to your family.' So, Ishmael divorced her and married another woman from amongstthem (i.e. Jurhum).Then Abraham stayed away from them for a period as long as Allah wished and called on them againbut did not find Ishmael. So he came to Ishmael's wife and asked her about Ishmael. She said, 'He hasgone in search of our livelihood.' Abraham asked her, 'How are you getting on?' asking her about theirsustenance and living. She replied, 'We are prosperous and well-off (i.e. we have everything inabundance).' Then she thanked Allah' Abraham said, 'What kind of food do you eat?' She said. 'Meat.'He said, 'What do you drink?' She said, 'Water." He said, "O Allah! Bless their meat and water." TheProphet added, "At that time they did not have grain, and if they had grain, he would have alsoinvoked Allah to bless it." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "If somebody has only these two things as hissustenance, his health and disposition will be badly affected, unless he lives in Mecca." The Prophet (ﷺ)added," Then Abraham said Ishmael's wife, "When your husband comes, give my regards to him andtell him that he should keep firm the threshold of his gate.' When Ishmael came back, he asked hiswife, 'Did anyone call on you?' She replied, 'Yes, a good-looking old man came to me,' so she praisedhim and added. 'He asked about you, and I informed him, and he asked about our livelihood and I toldhim that we were in a good condition.' Ishmael asked her, 'Did he give you any piece of advice?' Shesaid, 'Yes, he told me to give his regards to you and ordered that you should keep firm the threshold ofyour gate.' On that Ishmael said, 'It was my father, and you are the threshold (of the gate). He hasordered me to keep you with me.'Then Abraham stayed away from them for a period as long as Allah wished, and called on themafterwards. He saw Ishmael under a tree near Zamzam, sharpening his arrows. When he sawAbraham, he rose up to welcome him (and they greeted each other as a father does with his son or ason does with his father). Abraham said, 'O Ishmael! Allah has given me an order.' Ishmael said, 'Dowhat your Lord has ordered you to do.' Abraham asked, 'Will you help me?' Ishmael said, 'I will helpyou.' Abraham said, Allah has ordered me to build a house here,' pointing to a hillock higher than theland surrounding it." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Then they raised the foundations of the House (i.e. theKa`ba). Ishmael brought the stones and Abraham was building, and when the walls became high,Ishmael brought this stone and put it for Abraham who stood over it and carried on building, whileIshmael was handing him the stones, and both of them were saying, 'O our Lord! Accept (this service)from us, Verily, You are the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing.' The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Then both of themwent on building and going round the Ka`ba saying: O our Lord ! Accept (this service) from us,Verily, You are the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing." (2.127)