61 | 25 | 108 | Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib: Abu Bakr came to my father who was at home and purchased a saddle from him. He said to `Azib."Tell your son to carry it with me." So I carried it with him and my father followed us so as to take theprice (of the saddle). My father said, "O Abu Bakr! Tell me what happened to you on your nightjourney with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (during Migration)." He said, "Yes, we travelled the whole night and alsothe next day till midday. when nobody could be seen on the way ( because of the severe heat) . Thenthere appeared a long rock having shade beneath it, and the sunshine had not come to it yet. So wedismounted there and I levelled a place and covered it with an animal hide or dry grass for the Prophet (ﷺ)to sleep on (for a while).I then said, 'Sleep, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and I will guard you.' So he slept and I went out to guard him.Suddenly I saw a shepherd coming with his sheep to that rock with the same intention we had whenwe came to it. I asked (him). 'To whom do you belong, O boy?' He replied, 'I belong to a man fromMedina or Mecca.' I said, 'Do your sheep have milk?' He said, 'Yes.' I said, 'Will you milk for us?' Hesaid, 'Yes.' He caught hold of a sheep and I asked him to clean its teat from dust, hairs and dirt. (Thesub-narrator said that he saw Al-Bara' striking one of his hands with the other, demonstrating how theshepherd removed the dust.) The shepherd milked a little milk in a wooden container and I had aleather container which I carried for the Prophet (ﷺ) to drink and perform the ablution from. I went to theProphet, hating to wake him up, but when I reached there, the Prophet (ﷺ) had already awakened; so Ipoured water over the middle part of the milk container, till the milk was cold. Then I said, 'Drink, OAllah's Messenger (ﷺ)!' He drank till I was pleased.Then he asked, 'Has the time for our departure come?' I said, 'Yes.' So we departed after midday.Suraqa bin Malik followed us and I said, 'We have been discovered, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!' He said, Don'tgrieve for Allah is with us.' The Prophet (ﷺ) invoked evil on him (i.e. Suraqa) and so the legs of his horsesank into the earth up to its belly. (The subnarrator, Zuhair is not sure whether Abu Bakr said, "(Itsank) into solid earth.") Suraqa said, 'I see that you have invoked evil on me. Please invoke good onme, and by Allah, I will cause those who are seeking after you to return.' The Prophet (ﷺ) invoked goodon him and he was saved. Then, whenever he met somebody on the way, he would say, 'I have lookedfor him here in vain.' So he caused whomever he met to return. Thus Suraqa fulfilled his promise."