61 | 25 | 90 | Narrated `Imran bin Husain: That they were with the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey. They travelled the whole night, and when dawnapproached, they took a rest and sleep overwhelmed them till the sun rose high in the sky. The first toget up was Abu Bakr. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s used not to be awakened from his sleep, but he would wake upby himself. `Umar woke up and then Abu Bakr sat by the side of the Prophet's head and startedsaying: Allahu-Akbar raising his voice till the Prophet (ﷺ) woke up, (and after traveling for a while) hedismounted and led us in the morning prayer. A man amongst the people failed to join us in theprayer. When the Prophet (ﷺ) had finished the prayer, he asked (the man), "O so-and-so! What preventedyou from offering the prayer with us?" He replied, "I am Junub," Alllah's Apostle ordered him toperform Tayammam with clean earth.The man then offered the prayer. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered me and a few others to go ahead of him. Wehad become very thirsty. While we were on our way (looking for water), we came across a lady(riding an animal), hanging her legs between two water-skins. We asked her, "Where can we getwater?" She replied, "Oh ! There is no water." We asked, "how far is your house from the water?" Shereplied, "A distance of a day and a night travel." We said, "Come on to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "She asked,"What is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?" So we brought her to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) against her will, and she told himwhat she had told us before and added that she was the mother of orphans. So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered thather two water-skins be brought and he rubbed the mouths of the water-skins. As we were thirsty, wedrank till we quenched our thirst and we were forty men. We also filled all our waterskins and otherutensils with water, but we did not water the camels. The waterskin was so full that it was almostabout to burst.The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Bring what (foodstuff) you have." So some dates and pieces of bread werecollected for the lady, and when she went to her people, she said, "I have met either the greatestmagician or a prophet as the people claim." So Allah guided the people of that village through thatlady. She embraced Islam and they all embraced Islam.