61 | 25 | 84 | Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Bakr: The companions of Suffa were poor people. The Prophet (ﷺ) once said, "Whoever has food enough fortwo persons, should take a third one (from among them), and whoever has food enough for fourpersons, should take a fifth or a sixth (or said something similar)." Abu Bakr brought three personswhile the Prophet (ﷺ) took ten. And Abu Bakr with his three family member (who were I, my father andmy mother) (the sub-narrator is in doubt whether `Abdur-Rahman said, "My wife and my servant whowas common for both my house and Abu Bakr's house.") Abu Bakr took his supper with the Prophet (ﷺ)and stayed there till he offered the `Isha' prayers. He returned and stayed till Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took hissupper.After a part of the night had passed, he returned to his house. His wife said to him, "What has detainedyou from your guests?" He said, "Have you served supper to them?" She said, "They refused to takesupper until you come. They (i.e. some members of the household) presented the meal to them butthey refused (to eat)" I went to hide myself and he said, "O Ghunthar!" He invoked Allah to cause myears to be cut and he rebuked me. He then said (to them): Please eat!" and added, I will never eat themeal." By Allah, whenever we took a handful of the meal, the meal grew from underneath more thanthat handful till everybody ate to his satisfaction; yet the remaining food was more than the originalmeal. Abu Bakr saw that the food was as much or more than the original amount. He called his wife,"O sister of Bani Firas!" She said, "O pleasure of my eyes. The food has been tripled in quantity."Abu Bakr then started eating thereof and said, "It (i.e. my oath not to eat) was because of Sa all." Hetook a handful from it, and carried the rest to the Prophet. So that food was with the Prophet (ﷺ) . Therewas a treaty between us and some people, and when the period of that treaty had elapsed, he dividedUS into twelve groups, each being headed by a man. Allah knows how many men were under thecommand of each leader. Anyhow, the Prophet (ﷺ) surely sent a leader with each group. Then all of themate of that meal.