62 | 5 | 21 | Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari: I performed ablution in my house and then went out and said, "Today I shall stick to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)and stay with him all this day of mine (in his service)." I went to the Mosque and asked about theProphet . They said, "He had gone in this direction." So I followed his way, asking about him till heentered a place called Bir Aris. I sat at its gate that was made of date-palm leaves till the Prophet (ﷺ)finished answering the call of nature and performed ablution. Then I went up to him to see him sittingat the well of Aris at the middle of its edge with his legs uncovered, hanging in the well. I greeted himand went back and sat at the gate. I said, "Today I will be the gatekeeper of the Prophet." Abu Bakrcame and pushed the gate. I asked, "Who is it?" He said, "Abu Bakr."I told him to wait, went in and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Abu Bakr asks for permission to enter." Hesaid, "Admit him and give him the glad tidings that he will be in Paradise." So I went out and said toAbu Bakr, "Come in, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gives you the glad tidings that you will be in Paradise" AbuBakr entered and sat on the right side of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the built edge of the well and hung his legsn the well as the Prophet (ﷺ) did and uncovered his legs. I then returned and sat (at the gate). I had left mybrother performing ablution and he intended to follow me. So I said (to myself). "If Allah wants goodfor so-and-so (i.e. my brother) He will bring him here."Suddenly somebody moved the door. I asked, "Who is it?" He said, "`Umar bin Al-Khattab." I askedhim to wait, went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), greeted him and said, `Umar bin Al-Khattab asks the permissionto enter." He said, "Admit him, and give him the glad tidings that he will be in Paradise." I went to"`Umar and said "Come in, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), gives you the glad tidings that you will be inParadise." So he entered and sat beside Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the built edge of the well on the left sideand hung his legs in the well. I returned and sat (at the gate) and said, (to myself), "If Allah wantsgood for so-and-so, He will bring him here." Somebody came and moved the door. I asked "Who isit?" He replied, "Uthman bin `Affan." I asked him to wait and went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him.He said, "Admit him, and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise, I asked him to wait and wentto the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him. He said, "Adult him, and give him the glad tidings of enteringParadise after a calamity that will befall him." So I went up to him and said to him, "Come in; Allah'sApostle gives you the glad tidings of entering Paradise after a calamity that will befall you. "Uthmanthen came in and found that the built edge of the well was occupied, so he sat opposite to the Prophet (ﷺ)on the other side. Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab said, "I interpret this (narration) in terms of their graves."