63 | 45 | 138 | Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived at Medina with Abu Bakr, riding behind him on the same camel. Abu Bakrwas an elderly man known to the people, while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was a youth that was unknown. Thus,if a man met Abu Bakr, he would say, "O Abu Bakr! Who is this man in front of you?" Abu Bakrwould say, "This man shows me the Way," One would think that Abu Bakr meant the road, while infact, Abu Bakr meant the way of virtue and good. Then Abu Bakr looked behind and saw a horse-riderpursuing them. He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This is a horse-rider pursuing us." The Prophet (ﷺ) lookedbehind and said, "O Allah! Cause him to fall down." So the horse threw him down and got upneighing. After that the rider, Suraqa said, "O Allah's Prophet! Order me whatever you want." TheProphet said, "Stay where you are and do not allow anybody to reach us." So, in the first part of theday Suraqa was an enemy of Allah's Prophet and in the last part of it, he was a protector. Then Allah'sApostle alighted by the side of the Al-Harra and sent a message to the Ansar, and they came to Allah'sProphet and Abu Bakr, and having greeted them, they said, "Ride (your she-camels) safe and obeyed."Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr rode and the Ansar, carrying their arms, surrounded them. The newsthat Allah's Prophet had come circulated in Medina. The people came out and were eagerly lookingand saying "Allah's Prophet has come! Allah's Prophet has come! So the Prophet (ﷺ) went on till healighted near the house of Abu Ayub. While the Prophet (ﷺ) was speaking with the family members ofAbu Ayub, `Abdullah bin Salam heard the news of his arrival while he himself was picking the datesfor his family from his family garden. He hurried to the Prophet (ﷺ) carrying the dates which he hadcollected for his family from the garden. He listened to Allah's Prophet and then went home.Then Allah's Prophet said, "Which is the nearest of the houses of our kith and kin?" Abu Ayubreplied, "Mine, O Allah's Prophet! This is my house and this is my gate." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Go andprepare a place for our midday rest." Abu Ayub said, "Get up (both of you) with Allah's Blessings."So when Allah's Prophet went into the house, `Abdullah bin Salam came and said "I testify that you(i.e. Muhammad) are Apostle of Allah and that you have come with the Truth. The Jews know wellthat I am their chief and the son of their chief and the most learned amongst them and the son of themost learned amongst them. So send for them (i.e. Jews) and ask them about me before they knowthat I have embraced Islam, for if they know that they will say about me things which are not correct."So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for them, and they came and entered. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them, "O (thegroup of) Jews! Woe to you: be afraid of Allah. By Allah except Whom none has the right to beworshipped, you people know for certain, that I am Apostle of Allah and that I have come to you withthe Truth, so embrace Islam." The Jews replied, "We do not know this." So they said this to theProphet and he repeated it thrice. Then he said, "What sort of a man is `Abdullah bin Salam amongstyou?" They said, "He is our chief and the son of our chief and the most learned man, and the son ofthe most learned amongst us." He said, "What would you think if he should embrace Islam?" Theysaid, "Allah forbid! He can not embrace Islam." He said, " What would you think if he shouldembrace Islam?" They said, "Allah forbid! He can not embrace Islam." He said, "What would youthink if he should embrace Islam?" They said, "Allah forbid! He can not embrace Islam." He said, "OIbn Salam! Come out to them." He came out and said, "O (the group of) Jews! Be afraid of Allahexcept Whom none has the right to be worshipped. You know for certain that he is Apostle of Allahand that he has brought a True Religion!' They said, "You tell a lie." On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) turnedthem out.