63 | 37 | 98 | Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Adi bin Al-Khiyar: That Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Aswad bin 'Abu Yaghuth had said to him,"What prevents you from speaking to your uncle `Uthman regarding his brother Al-Walid bin `Uqba?"The people were speaking against the latter for what he had done. 'Ubaidullah said, "So I kept waitingfor `Uthman, and when he went out for the prayer, I said to him, 'I have got something to say to you asa piece of advice.' `Uthman said, 'O man! I seek Refuge with Allah from you. So I went away. When Ifinished my prayer, I sat with Al-Miswar and Ibn 'Abu Yaghutb and talked to both of them of what Ihad said to `Uthman and what he had said to me. They said, 'You have done your duty.' So while Iwas sitting with them. `Uthman's Messenger came to me. They said, 'Allah has put you to trial."I set out and when I reached `Uthman, he said, 'What is your advice which you mentioned a whileago?' I recited Tashahhud and added, 'Allah has sent Muhammad and has revealed the Holy Book (i.e.Qur'an) to him. You (O `Uthman!) were amongst those who responded to the call of Allah and HisApostle and had faith in him. And you took part in the first two migrations (to Ethiopia and toMedina), and you enjoyed the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and learned his traditions and advice. Nowthe people are talking much about Al-Walid bin `Uqba and so it is your duty to impose on him thelegal punishment.' `Uthman then said to me, 'O my nephew! Did you ever meet Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?' Isaid, 'No, but his knowledge has reached me as it has reached the virgin in her seclusion.'`Uthman then recited Tashahhud and said, 'No doubt, Allah has sent Muhammad with the Truth andhas revealed to him His Holy Book (i.e. Qur'an) and I was amongst those who responded to the call ofAllah and His Apostle and I had faith in Muhammad's Mission, and I had performed the first twomigrations as you have said, and I enjoyed the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and gave the pledge ofallegiance to him. By Allah, I never disobeyed him and never cheated him till Allah caused him to die.Then Allah made Abu Bakr Caliph, and by Allah, I was never disobedient to him, nor did I cheat him.Then `Umar became Caliph, and by Allah, I was never disobedient to him, nor did I cheat him. Then Ibecame Caliph. Have I not then the same rights over you as they had over me?' I replied in theaffirmative. `Uthman further said, 'The what are these talks which are reaching me from you? As forwhat you ha mentioned about Al-Walid bin 'Uqb; Allah willing, I shall give him the leg; punishmentjustly. Then `Uthman ordered that Al-Walid be flogged fort lashes. He ordered `Ali to flog him an hehimself flogged him as well."