63 | 42 | 113 | Narrated `Abbas bin Malik: Malik bin Sasaa said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) described to them his Night Journey saying, "While I waslying in Al-Hatim or Al-Hijr, suddenly someone came to me and cut my body open from here tohere." I asked Al-Jarud who was by my side, "What does he mean?" He said, "It means from his throatto his pubic area," or said, "From the top of the chest." The Prophet (ﷺ) further said, "He then took out myheart. Then a gold tray of Belief was brought to me and my heart was washed and was filled (withBelief) and then returned to its original place. Then a white animal which was smaller than a mule andbigger than a donkey was brought to me." (On this Al-Jarud asked, "Was it the Buraq, O AbuHamza?" I (i.e. Anas) replied in the affirmative). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The animal's step (was so widethat it) reached the farthest point within the reach of the animal's sight. I was carried on it, and Gabrielset out with me till we reached the nearest heaven.When he asked for the gate to be opened, it was asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel answered, 'Gabriel.' It wasasked, 'Who is accompanying you?' Gabriel replied, 'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has Muhammadbeen called?' Gabriel replied in the affirmative. Then it was said, 'He is welcomed. What an excellentvisit his is!' The gate was opened, and when I went over the first heaven, I saw Adam there. Gabrielsaid (to me). 'This is your father, Adam; pay him your greetings.' So I greeted him and he returned thegreeting to me and said, 'You are welcomed, O pious son and pious Prophet.' Then Gabriel ascendedwith me till we reached the second heaven. Gabriel asked for the gate to be opened. It was asked,'Who is it?' Gabriel answered, 'Gabriel.' It was asked, 'Who is accompanying you?' Gabriel replied,'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has he been called?' Gabriel answered in the affirmative. Then it wassaid, 'He is welcomed. What an excellent visit his is!' The gate was opened.When I went over the second heaven, there I saw Yahya (i.e. John) and `Isa (i.e. Jesus) who werecousins of each other. Gabriel said (to me), 'These are John and Jesus; pay them your greetings.' So Igreeted them and both of them returned my greetings to me and said, 'You are welcomed, O piousbrother and pious Prophet.' Then Gabriel ascended with me to the third heaven and asked for its gateto be opened. It was asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel replied, 'Gabriel.' It was asked, 'Who is accompanyingyou?' Gabriel replied, 'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has he been called?' Gabriel replied in theaffirmative. Then it was said, 'He is welcomed, what an excellent visit his is!' The gate was opened,and when I went over the third heaven there I saw Joseph. Gabriel said (to me), 'This is Joseph; payhim your greetings.' So I greeted him and he returned the greeting to me and said, 'You are welcomed,O pious brother and pious Prophet.' Then Gabriel ascended with me to the fourth heaven and asked forits gate to be opened. It was asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel replied, 'Gabriel' It was asked, 'Who isaccompanying you?' Gabriel replied, 'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has he been called?' Gabriel repliedin the affirmative. Then it was said, 'He is welcomed, what an excel lent visit his is!'The gate was opened, and when I went over the fourth heaven, there I saw Idris. Gabriel said (to me),'This is Idris; pay him your greetings.' So I greeted him and he returned the greeting to me and said,'You are welcomed, O pious brother and pious Prophet.' Then Gabriel ascended with me to the fifthheaven and asked for its gate to be opened. It was asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel replied, 'Gabriel.' It wasasked. 'Who is accompanying you?' Gabriel replied, 'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has he been called?'Gabriel replied in the affirmative. Then it was said He is welcomed, what an excellent visit his is! Sowhen I went over the fifth heaven, there I saw Harun (i.e. Aaron), Gabriel said, (to me). This is Aaron;pay him your greetings.' I greeted him and he returned the greeting to me and said, 'You arewelcomed, O pious brother and pious Prophet.' Then Gabriel ascended with me to the sixth heavenand asked for its gate to be opened. It was asked. 'Who is it?' Gabriel replied, 'Gabriel.' It was asked,'Who is accompanying you?' Gabriel replied, 'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has he been called?' Gabrielreplied in the affirmative. It was said, 'He is welcomed. What an excellent visit his is!'When I went (over the sixth heaven), there I saw Moses. Gabriel said (to me),' This is Moses; pay himyour greeting. So I greeted him and he returned the greetings to me and said, 'You are welcomed, Opious brother and pious Prophet.' When I left him (i.e. Moses) he wept. Someone asked him, 'Whatmakes you weep?' Moses said, 'I weep because after me there has been sent (as Prophet) a young manwhose followers will enter Paradise in greater numbers than my followers.' Then Gabriel ascendedwith me to the seventh heaven and asked for its gate to be opened. It was asked, 'Who is it?' Gabrielreplied, 'Gabriel.' It was asked,' Who is accompanying you?' Gabriel replied, 'Muhammad.' It wasasked, 'Has he been called?' Gabriel replied in the affirmative. Then it was said, 'He is welcomed.What an excellent visit his is!'So when I went (over the seventh heaven), there I saw Abraham. Gabriel said (to me), 'This is yourfather; pay your greetings to him.' So I greeted him and he returned the greetings to me and said, 'Youare welcomed, O pious son and pious Prophet.' Then I was made to ascend to Sidrat-ul-Muntaha (i.e.the Lote Tree of the utmost boundary) Behold! Its fruits were like the jars of Hajr (i.e. a place nearMedina) and its leaves were as big as the ears of elephants. Gabriel said, 'This is the Lote Tree of theutmost boundary) . Behold ! There ran four rivers, two were hidden and two were visible, I asked,'What are these two kinds of rivers, O Gabriel?' He replied,' As for the hidden rivers, they are tworivers in Paradise and the visible rivers are the Nile and the Euphrates.'Then Al-Bait-ul-Ma'mur (i.e. the Sacred House) was shown to me and a container full of wine andanother full of milk and a third full of honey were brought to me. I took the milk. Gabriel remarked,'This is the Islamic religion which you and your followers are following.' Then the prayers wereenjoined on me: They were fifty prayers a day. When I returned, I passed by Moses who asked (me),'What have you been ordered to do?' I replied, 'I have been ordered to offer fifty prayers a day.' Mosessaid, 'Your followers cannot bear fifty prayers a day, and by Allah, I have tested people before you,and I have tried my level best with Bani Israel (in vain). Go back to your Lord and ask for reduction tolessen your followers' burden.' So I went back, and Allah reduced ten prayers for me. Then again Icame to Moses, but he repeated the same as he had said before. Then again I went back to Allah andHe reduced ten more prayers. When I came back to Moses he said the same, I went back to Allah andHe ordered me to observe ten prayers a day. When I came back to Moses, he repeated the sameadvice, so I went back to Allah and was ordered to observe five prayers a day.When I came back to Moses, he said, 'What have you been ordered?' I replied, 'I have been ordered toobserve five prayers a day.' He said, 'Your followers cannot bear five prayers a day, and no doubt, Ihave got an experience of the people before you, and I have tried my level best with Bani Israel, so goback to your Lord and ask for reduction to lessen your follower's burden.' I said, 'I have requested somuch of my Lord that I feel ashamed, but I am satisfied now and surrender to Allah's Order.' When Ileft, I heard a voice saying, 'I have passed My Order and have lessened the burden of My Worshipers."