67 | 88 | 131 | Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: During the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), the sun eclipsed. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the prayer of (the)eclipse) and so did the people along with him. He performed a long Qiyam (standing posture) duringwhich Surat-al-Baqara could have been recited; then he performed a pro-longed bowing, then raisedhis head and stood for a long time which was slightly less than that of the first Qiyam (and recitedQur'an). Then he performed a prolonged bowing again but the period was shorter than the period ofthe first bowing, then he stood up and then prostrated. Again he stood up, but this time the period ofstanding was less than the first standing. Then he performed a prolonged bowing but of a lesserduration than the first, then he stood up again for a long time but for a lesser duration than the first.Then he performed a prolonged bowing but of lesser duration than the first, and then he again stoodup, and then prostrated and then finished his prayer. By then the sun eclipse had cleared.The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "The sun and the moon are two signs among the signs of Allah, and they do noteclipse because of the death or birth of someone, so when you observe the eclipse, remember Allah(offer the eclipse prayer)." They (the people) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We saw you stretching yourhand to take something at this place of yours, then we saw you stepping backward." He said, "I sawParadise (or Paradise was shown to me), and I stretched my hand to pluck a bunch (of grapes), andhad I plucked it, you would have eaten of it as long as this world exists. Then I saw the (Hell) Fire,and I have never before, seen such a horrible sight as that, and I saw that the majority of its dwellerswere women." The people asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is the reason for that?" He replied,"Because of their ungratefulness." It was said. "Do they disbelieve in Allah (are they ungrateful toAllah)?" He replied, "They are not thankful to their husbands and are ungrateful for the favors done tothem. Even if you do good to one of them all your life, when she seems some harshness from you, shewill say, "I have never seen any good from you.' "