67 | 83 | 125 | Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I had been eager to ask `Umar bin Al-Khattab about the two ladies from among the wives of theProphet regarding whom Allah said 'If you two (wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) namely Aisha and Hafsa) turn inrepentance to Allah, your hearts are indeed so inclined (to oppose what the Prophet (ﷺ) likes). (66.4) till`Umar performed the Hajj and I too, performed the Hajj along with him. (On the way) `Umar wentaside to answer the call of nature, and I also went aside along with him carrying a tumbler full ofwater, and when `Umar had finished answering the call of nature, I poured water over his hands andhe performed the ablution. Then I said to him, "O chief of the Believers! Who were the two ladiesfrom among the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) regarding whom Allah said: 'If you two (wives of the Prophet)turn in repentance to Allah your hearts are indeed so inclined (to oppose what the Prophet (ﷺ) likes)?"(66.4)He said, "I am astonished at your question, O Ibn `Abbas. They were `Aisha and Hafsa." Then `Umarwent on narrating the Hadith and said, "I and an Ansari neighbor of mine from Bani Umaiyya bin Zaidwho used to live in `Awali-al-Medina, used to visit the Prophet (ﷺ) in turn. He used to go one day and Ianother day. When I went, I would bring him the news of what had happened that day regarding theDivine Inspiration and other things, and when he went, he used to do the same for me. We, the peopleof Quraish used to have the upper hand over our wives, but when we came to the Ansar, we found thattheir women had the upper hand over their men, so our women also started learning the ways of theAnsari women. I shouted at my wife and she retorted against me and I disliked that she should answerme back.She said to me, 'Why are you so surprised at my answering you back? By Allah, the wives of theProphet answer him back and some of them may leave (does not speak to) him throughout the day tillthe night.' The (talk) scared me and I said to her, 'Whoever has done so will be ruined!' Then Iproceeded after dressing myself, and entered upon Hafsa and said to her, 'Does anyone of you keepthe Prophet (ﷺ) angry till night?' She said, 'Yes.' I said, 'You are a ruined losing person! Don't you fearthat Allah may get angry for the anger of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and thus you will be ruined? So do not askmore from the Prophet (ﷺ) and do not answer him back and do not give up talking to him. Ask mewhatever you need and do not be tempted to imitate your neighbor (i.e., `Aisha) in her manners forshe is more charming than you and more beloved to the Prophet (ﷺ) ." `Umar added,"At that time a talkwas circulating among us that (the tribe of) Ghassan were preparing their horses to invade us.My Ansari companion, on the day of his turn, went (to the town) and returned to us at night andknocked at my door violently and asked if I was there. I became horrified and came out to him. Hesaid, 'Today a great thing has happened.' I asked, 'What is it? Have (the people of) Ghassan come?' Hesaid, 'No, but (What has happened) is greater and more horrifying than that: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ); hasdivorced his wives. `Umar added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) kept away from his wives and I said "Hafsa is aruined loser.' I had already thought that most probably this (divorce) would happen in the near future.So I dressed myself and offered the morning prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then the Prophet; entered anupper room and stayed there in seclusion. I entered upon Hafsa and saw her weeping. I asked, 'Whatmakes you weep? Did I not warn you about that? Did the Prophet (ﷺ) divorce you all?' She said, 'I do notknow. There he is retired alone in the upper room.' I came out and sat near the pulpit and saw a groupof people sitting around it and some of them were weeping. I sat with them for a while but could notendure the situation, so I went to the upper room where the Prophet; was and said to a black slave ofhis, 'Will you get the permission (of the Prophet (ﷺ) ) for `Umar (to enter)?' The slave went in, talked tothe Prophet (ﷺ) about it and then returned saying, 'I have spoken to the Prophet (ﷺ) and mentioned you but hekept quiet.' Then I returned and sat with the group of people sitting near the pulpit. but I could notbear the situation and once again I said to the slave, 'Will you get the permission for `Umar?' He wentin and returned saying, 'I mentioned you to him but he kept quiet.'So I returned again and sat with the group of people sitting near the pulpit, but I could not bear thesituation, and so I went to the slave and said, 'Will you get the permission for `Umar?' He went in andreturned to me saying, 'I mentioned you to him but he kept quiet.' When I was leaving, behold! Theslave called me, saying, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) has given you permission.'Then I entered upon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and saw him Lying on a bed made of stalks of date palm leavesand there was no bedding between it and him. The stalks left marks on his side and he was leaning ona leather pillow stuffed with date-palm fires. I greeted him and while still standing I said, 'O Allah'sApostle! Have you divorced your wives?' He looked at me and said, 'No.' I said, 'Allah Akbar!' Andthen, while still standing, I said chatting, 'Will you heed what I say, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? We, the peopleof Quraish used to have power over our women, but when we arrived at Medina we found that themen (here) were overpowered by their women.' The Prophet (ﷺ) smiled and then I said to him, 'Will youheed what I say, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?I entered upon Hafsa and said to her, "Do not be tempted to imitate your companion (`Aisha), for sheis more charming than you and more beloved to the Prophet.' " The Prophet (ﷺ) smiled for a second time.When I saw him smiling, I sat down. Then I looked around his house, and by Allah, I could not seeanything of importance in his house except three hides, so I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah tomake your followers rich, for the Persians and the Romans have been made prosperous and they havebeen given (the pleasures of the world), although they do not worship Allah.'Thereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) sat up as he was reclining. and said, 'Are you of such an opinion, O the son ofAl-Khattab? These are the people who have received the rewards for their good deeds in this world.' Isaid, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Ask Allah to forgive me.' Then the Prophet (ﷺ) kept away from his wives fortwenty-nine days because of the story which Hafsa had disclosed to `Aisha.The Prophet (ﷺ) had said, 'I will not enter upon them (my wives) for one month,' because of his angertowards them, when Allah had admonished him. So, when twenty nine days had passed, the Prophet (ﷺ)first entered upon `Aisha. `Aisha said to him, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You had sworn that you would notenter upon us for one month, but now only twenty-nine days have passed, for I have been countingthem one by one.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'The (present) month is of twenty nine days.' `Aisha added, 'ThenAllah revealed the Verses of the option. (2) And out of all his-wives he asked me first, and I chosehim.' Then he gave option to his other wives and they said what `Aisha had said . " (1) The Prophet, 'had decided to abstain from eating a certain kind of food because of a certain event, so Allah blamedhim for doing so. Some of his wives were the cause of him taking that decision, therefore he desertedthem for one month. See Qur'an: (66.4)