67 | 82 | 123 | Narrated `Aisha: Eleven women sat (at a place) and promised and contracted that they would not conceal anything ofthe news of their husbands.The first one said, "My husband is like the meat of a slim weak camel which is kept on the top of amountain which is neither easy to climb, nor is the meat fat, so that one might put up with the troubleof fetching it."The second one said, "I shall not relate my husband's news, for I fear that I may not be able to finishhis story, for if I describe him, I will mention all his defects and bad traits."The third one said, "My husband, the "too-tall"! if I describe him (and he hears of that) he willdivorce me, and if I keep quiet, he will keep me hanging (neither divorcing me nor treating me as awife)."The fourth one said, "My husband is (moderate in temper) like the night of Tihama: neither hot norcold; I am neither afraid of him, nor am I discontented with him."The fifth one said, "My husband, when entering (the house) is a leopard (sleeps a lot), and when goingout, is a lion (boasts a lot).He does not ask about whatever is in the house."The sixth one said, "If my husband eats, he eats too much (leaving the dishes empty), and if he drinkshe leaves nothing; if he sleeps he sleeps he rolls himself (alone in our blankets); and he does not inserthis palm to inquire about my feelings."The seventh one said, "My husband is a wrong-doer or weak and foolish. All the defects are present inhim. He may injure your head or your body or may do both."The eighth one said, "My husband is soft to touch like a rabbit and smells like a Zarnab (a kind ofgood smelling grass)."The ninth one said, "My husband is a tall generous man wearing a long strap for carrying his sword.His ashes are abundant (i.e. generous to his guests) and his house is near to the people (who wouldeasily consult him)."The tenth one said, "My husband is Malik (possessor), and what is Malik? Malik is greater thanwhatever I say about him. (He is beyond and above all praises which can come to my mind). Most ofhis camels are kept at home (ready to be slaughtered for the guests) and only a few are taken to thepastures. When the camels hear the sound of the lute (or the tambourine) they realize that they aregoing to be slaughtered for the guests."The eleventh one said, "My husband is Abu Zar` and what is Abu Zar` (i.e., what should I say abouthim)? He has given me many ornaments and my ears are heavily loaded with them and my arms havebecome fat (i.e., I have become fat). And he has pleased me, and I have become so happy that I feelproud of myself. He found me with my family who were mere owners of sheep and living in poverty,and brought me to a respected family having horses and camels and threshing and purifying grain.Whatever I say, he does not rebuke or insult me. When I sleep, I sleep till late in the morning, andwhen I drink water (or milk), I drink my fill. The mother of Abu Zar and what may one say in praiseof the mother of Abu Zar? Her saddle bags were always full of provision and her house was spacious.As for the son of Abu Zar, what may one say of the son of Abu Zar? His bed is as narrow as anunsheathed sword and an arm of a kid (of four months) satisfies his hunger. As for the daughter ofAbu Zar, she is obedient to her father and to her mother. She has a fat well-built body and that arousesthe jealousy of her husband's other wife. As for the (maid) slave girl of Abu Zar, what may one say ofthe (maid) slavegirl of Abu Zar? She does not uncover our secrets but keeps them, and does not wasteour provisions and does not leave the rubbish scattered everywhere in our house."The eleventh lady added, "One day it so happened that Abu Zar went out at the time when the milkwas being milked from the animals, and he saw a woman who had two sons like two leopards playingwith her two breasts. (On seeing her) he divorced me and married her. Thereafter I married a nobleman who used to ride a fast tireless horse and keep a spear in his hand. He gave me many things, andalso a pair of every kind of livestock and said, Eat (of this), O Um Zar, and give provision to yourrelatives."She added, "Yet, all those things which my second husband gave me could not fill the smallest utensilof Abu Zar's."`Aisha then said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "I am to you as Abu Zar was to his wife Um Zar."