77 | 31 | 60 | Narrated Ibn `Abbas: For one year I wanted to ask `Umar about the two women who helped each other against the Prophet (ﷺ)but I was afraid of him. One day he dismounted his riding animal and went among the trees of Arak toanswer the call of nature, and when he returned, I asked him and he said, "(They were) `Aisha andHafsa." Then he added, "We never used to give significance to ladies in the days of the Pre-lslamicperiod of ignorance, but when Islam came and Allah mentioned their rights, we used to give themtheir rights but did not allow them to interfere in our affairs.Once there was some dispute between me and my wife and she answered me back in a loud voice. Isaid to her, 'Strange! You can retort in this way?' She said, 'Yes. Do you say this to me while yourdaughter troubles Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?' So I went to Hafsa and said to her, 'I warn you not to disobeyAllah and His Apostle.' I first went to Hafsa and then to Um Salama and told her the same. She said tome, 'O `Umar! It surprises me that you interfere in our affairs so much that you would poke your noseeven into the affairs of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his wives.' So she rejected my advice. There was an Ansariman; whenever he was absent from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and I was present there, I used to convey to himwhat had happened (on that day), and when I was absent and he was present there, he used to conveyto me what had happened as regards news from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) .During that time all the rulers of the nearby lands had surrendered to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) except the kingof Ghassan in Sham, and we were afraid that he might attack us. All of a sudden the Ansari came andsaid, 'A great event has happened!' I asked him, 'What is it? Has the Ghassani (king) come?' He said,'Greater than that! Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has divorced his wives! I went to them and found all of themweeping in their dwellings, and the Prophet (ﷺ) had ascended to an upper room of his. At the door of theroom there was a slave to whom I went and said, "Ask the permission for me to enter." He admittedme and I entered to see the Prophet (ﷺ) lying on a mat that had left its imprint on his side. Under his headthere was a leather pillow stuffed with palm fires. Behold! There were some hides hanging there andsome grass for tanning. Then I mentioned what I had said to Hafsa and Um Salama and what replyUm Salama had given me. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled and stayed there for twenty nine days and thencame down."