79 | 20 | 28 | Narrated `Urwa-bin Az-Zubair: Usama bin Zaid said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) rode over a donkey with a saddle underneath which there was athick soft Fadakiya velvet sheet. Usama bin Zaid was his companion rider, and he was going to pay avisit to Sa`d bin Ubada (who was sick) at the dwelling place of Bani Al-Harith bin Al-Khazraj, andthis incident happened before the battle of Badr. The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a gathering in which therewere Muslims and pagan idolators and Jews, and among them there was `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul,and there was `Abdullah bin Rawaha too. When a cloud of dust raised by the animal covered thatgathering, `Abdullah bin Ubai covered his nose with his Rida (sheet) and said (to the Prophet), "Don'tcover us with dust." The Prophet (ﷺ) greeted them and then stopped, dismounted and invited them toAllah (i.e., to embrace Islam) and also recited to them the Holy Qur'an. `Abdullah bin Ubai' bin Salulsaid, "O man! There is nothing better than what you say, if what you say is the truth. So do not troubleus in our gatherings. Go back to your mount (or house,) and if anyone of us comes to you, tell (yourtales) to him." On that `Abdullah bin Rawaha said, "(O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!) Come to us and bring it(whatyou want to say) in our gatherings, for we love that." So the Muslims, the pagans and the Jews startedquarreling till they were about to fight and clash with one another. The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on quieteningthem (till they all became quiet). He then rode his animal, and proceeded till he entered upon Sa`d bin'Ubada, he said, "O Sa`d, didn't you hear what Abu Habbab said? (He meant `Abdullah bin Ubai). Hesaid so-and-so." Sa`d bin 'Ubada said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Excuse and forgive him, for by Allah,Allah has given you what He has given you. The people of this town decided to crown him (as theirchief) and make him their king. But when Allah prevented that with the Truth which He had givenyou, it choked him, and that was what made him behave in the way you saw him behaving." So theProphet excused him.