81 | 17 | 47 | Narrated Abu Huraira: By Allah except Whom none has the right to- be worshipped, (sometimes) I used to lay (sleep) on theground on my liver (abdomen) because of hunger, and (sometimes) I used to bind a stone over mybelly because of hunger. One day I sat by the way from where they (the Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions)used to come out. When Abu Bakr passed by, I asked him about a Verse from Allah's Book and Iasked him only that he might satisfy my hunger, but he passed by and did not do so. Then `Umarpassed by me and I asked him about a Verse from Allah's Book, and I asked him only that he mightsatisfy my hunger, but he passed by without doing so. Finally Abu-l-Qasim (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) passed byme and he smiled when he saw me, for he knew what was in my heart and on my face. He said, "OAba Hirr (Abu Huraira)!" I replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said to me, "Follow me." He leftand I followed him.Then he entered the house and I asked permission to enter and was admitted. He found milk in a bowland said, "From where is this milk?" They said, "It has been presented to you by such-and-such man(or by such and such woman)." He said, "O Aba Hirr!" I said, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said,"Go and call the people of Suffa to me." These people of Suffa were the guests of Islam who had nofamilies, nor money, nor anybody to depend upon, and whenever an object of charity was brought tothe Prophet, he would send it to them and would not take anything from it, and whenever any presentwas given to him, he used to send some for them and take some of it for himself. The order of theProphet upset me, and I said to myself, "How will this little milk be enough for the people of As-Suffa? though I was more entitled to drink from that milk in order to strengthen myself", but behold!The Prophet (ﷺ) came to order me to give that milk to them. I wondered what will remain of that milk forme, but anyway, I could not but obey Allah and His Apostle so I went to the people of As-Suffa andcalled them, and they came and asked the Prophet's permission to enter. They were admitted and tooktheir seats in the house.The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Aba-Hirr!" I said, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Take it and give it tothem." So I took the bowl (of milk) and started giving it to one man who would drink his fill andreturn it to me, whereupon I would give it to another man who, in his turn, would drink his fill andreturn it to me, and I would then offer it to another man who would drink his fill and return it to me.Finally, after the whole group had drunk their fill, I reached the Prophet (ﷺ) who took the bowl and put iton his hand, looked at me and smiled and said. "O Aba Hirr!" I replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"He said, "There remain you and I." I said, "You have said the truth, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Sitdown and drink." I sat down and drank. He said, "Drink," and I drank. He kept on telling merepeatedly to drink, till I said, "No. by Allah Who sent you with the Truth, I have no space for it (inmy stomach)." He said, "Hand it over to me." When I gave him the bowl, he praised Allah andpronounced Allah's Name on it and drank the remaining milk.