81 | 52 | 162 | Narrated Abu Huraira: Some people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we see our Lord on the Day of Resurrection?" He said,"Do you crowd and squeeze each other on looking at the sun when it is not hidden by clouds?" Theyreplied, "No, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He said, "Do you crowd and squeeze each other on looking at themoon when it is full and not hidden by clouds?" They replied, No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Soyou will see Him (your Lord) on the Day of Resurrection similarly Allah will gather all the people andsay, 'Whoever used to worship anything should follow that thing. 'So, he who used to worship the sun,will follow it, and he who used to worship the moon will follow it, and he who used to worship falsedeities will follow them; and then only this nation (i.e., Muslims) will remain, including theirhypocrites. Allah will come to them in a shape other than they know and will say, 'I am your Lord.'They will say, 'We seek refuge with Allah from you. This is our place; (we will not follow you) tillour Lord comes to us, and when our Lord comes to us, we will recognize Him.Then Allah will come to then in a shape they know and will say, "I am your Lord.' They will say, '(Nodoubt) You are our Lord,' and they will follow Him. Then a bridge will be laid over the (Hell) Fire."Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "I will be the first to cross it. And the invocation of the Apostles on that Day,will be 'Allahumma Sallim, Sallim (O Allah, save us, save us!),' and over that bridge there will behooks Similar to the thorns of As Sa'dan (a thorny tree). Didn't you see the thorns of As-Sa'dan?" Thecompanions said, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He added, "So the hooks over that bridge will be like thethorns of As-Sa-dan except that their greatness in size is only known to Allah. These hooks will snatchthe people according to their deeds. Some people will be ruined because of their evil deeds, and somewill be cut into pieces and fall down in Hell, but will be saved afterwards, when Allah has finished thejudgments among His slaves, and intends to take out of the Fire whoever He wishes to take out fromamong those who used to testify that none had the right to be worshipped but Allah.We will order the angels to take them out and the angels will know them by the mark of the traces ofprostration (on their foreheads) for Allah banned the f ire to consume the traces of prostration on thebody of Adam's son. So they will take them out, and by then they would have burnt (as coal), and thenwater, called Ma'ul Hayat (water of life) will be poured on them, and they will spring out like a seedsprings out on the bank of a rainwater stream, and there will remain one man who will be facing the(Hell) Fire and will say, 'O Lord! It's (Hell's) vapor has Poisoned and smoked me and its flame hasburnt me; please turn my face away from the Fire.' He will keep on invoking Allah till Allah says,'Perhaps, if I give you what you want), you will ask for another thing?' The man will say, 'No, by YourPower, I will not ask You for anything else.'Then Allah will turn his face away from the Fire. The man will say after that, 'O Lord, bring me nearthe gate of Paradise.' Allah will say (to him), 'Didn't you promise not to ask for anything else? Woe toyou, O son of Adam ! How treacherous you are!' The man will keep on invoking Allah till Allah willsay, 'But if I give you that, you may ask me for something else.' The man will say, 'No, by YourPower. I will not ask for anything else.' He will give Allah his covenant and promise not to ask foranything else after that. So Allah will bring him near to the gate of Paradise, and when he sees what isin it, he will remain silent as long as Allah will, and then he will say, 'O Lord! Let me enter Paradise.'Allah will say, 'Didn't you promise that you would not ask Me for anything other than that? Woe toyou, O son of Adam ! How treacherous you are!' On that, the man will say, 'O Lord! Do not make methe most wretched of Your creation,' and will keep on invoking Allah till Allah will smile and whenAllah will smile because of him, then He will allow him to enter Paradise, and when he will enterParadise, he will be addressed, 'Wish from so-and-so.' He will wish till all his wishes will be fulfilled,then Allah will say, All this (i.e. what you have wished for) and as much again therewith are for you.'"Abu Huraira added: That man will be the last of the people of Paradise to enter (Paradise).