84 | 10 | 15 | Narrated Zahdam al-Jarmi: We were sitting with Abu Musa Al-Ash'sari, and as there were ties of friendship and mutual favorsbetween us and his tribe. His meal was presented before him and there was chicken meat in it. Amongthose who were present there was a man from Bani Taimillah having a red complexion as a non-Arabfreed slave, and that man did not approach the meal. Abu Musa said to him, "Come along! I have seenAllah's Messenger (ﷺ) eating of that (i.e., chicken)." The man said, "I have seen it (chickens) eatingsomething I regarded as dirty, and so I have taken an oath that I shall not eat (its meat) chicken." AbuMusa said, "Come along! I will inform you about it (i.e., your oath).Once we went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in company with a group of Ash'airiyin, asking him for mountswhile he was distributing some camels from the camels of Zakat. (Aiyub said, "I think he said that theProphet was in an angry mood at the time.") The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'By Allah! I will not give you mounts,and I have nothing to mount you on.' After we had left, some camels of booty were brought to Allah'sApostle and he said, "Where are those Ash`ariyin? Where are those Ash`ariyin?" So we went (to him)and he gave us five very fat good-looking camels. We mounted them and went away, and then I saidto my companions, 'We went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to give us mounts, but he took an oath that he wouldnot give us mounts, and then later on he sent for us and gave us mounts, perhaps Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)forgot his oath. By Allah, we will never be successful, for we have taken advantage of the fact thatAllah's Messenger (ﷺ) forgot to fulfill his oath. So let us return to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to remind him of his oath.'We returned and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We came to you and asked you for mounts, but you took anoath that you would not give us mounts) but later on you gave us mounts, and we thought orconsidered that you have forgotten your oath.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Depart, for Allah has given youMounts. By Allah, Allah willing, if I take an oath and then later find another thing better than that, Ido what is better, and make expiation for the oath.' "