88 | 9 | 21 | Narrated: Abu `Abdur-Rahman and Hibban bin 'Atiyya had a dispute. Abu `Abdur-Rahman said to Hibban,"You know what made your companions (i.e. `Ali) dare to shed blood." Hibban said, "Come on! Whatis that?" `Abdur-Rahman said, "Something I heard him saying." The other said, "What was it?"`AbdurRahman said, "`Ali said, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for me, Az-Zubair and Abu Marthad, and all ofus were cavalry men, and said, 'Proceed to Raudat-Hajj (Abu Salama said that Abu 'Awana called itlike this, i.e., Hajj where there is a woman carrying a letter from Hatib bin Abi Balta'a to the pagans(of Mecca). So bring that letter to me.' So we proceeded riding on our horses till we overtook her atthe same place of which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had told us. She was traveling on her camel. In that letterHatib had written to the Meccans about the proposed attached of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) against them. Weasked her, "Where is the letter which is with you?' She replied, 'I haven't got any letter.' So we madeher camel kneel down and searched her luggage, but we did not find anything. My two companionssaid, 'We do not think that she has got a letter.' I said, 'We know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has not told alie.'"Then `Ali took an oath saying, "By Him by Whom one should swear! You shall either bring out theletter or we shall strip off your clothes." She then stretched out her hand for her girdle (round herwaist) and brought out the paper (letter). They took the letter to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). `Umar said, "OAllah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (Hatib) has betrayed Allah, His Apostle and the believers; let me chop off his neck!"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Hatib! What obliged you to do what you have done?" Hatib replied, "OAllah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why (for what reason) should I not believe in Allah and His Apostle? But I intendedto do the (Mecca) people a favor by virtue of which my family and property may be protected as thereis none of your companions but has some of his people (relatives) whom Allah urges to protect hisfamily and property." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He has said the truth; therefore, do not say anything to himexcept good." `Umar again said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He has betrayed Allah, His Apostle and thebelievers; let me chop his neck off!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Isn't he from those who fought the battle ofBadr? And what do you know, Allah might have looked at them (Badr warriors) and said (to them),'Do what you like, for I have granted you Paradise?' " On that, `Umar's eyes became flooded with tearsand he said, "Allah and His Apostle know best."