91 | 1 | 1 | Narrated `Aisha: The commencement of the Divine Inspiration to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in the form of good righteous(true) dreams in his sleep. He never had a dream but that it came true like bright day light. He used togo in seclusion (the cave of) Hira where he used to worship(Allah Alone) continuously for many(days) nights. He used to take with him the journey food for that (stay) and then come back to (hiswife) Khadija to take his food like-wise again for another period to stay, till suddenly the Truthdescended upon him while he was in the cave of Hira. The angel came to him in it and asked him toread. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "I do not know how to read." (The Prophet (ﷺ) added), "The angel caught me(forcefully) and pressed me so hard that I could not bear it anymore. He then released me and againasked me to read, and I replied, "I do not know how to read," whereupon he caught me again andpressed me a second time till I could not bear it anymore. He then released me and asked me again toread, but again I replied, "I do not know how to read (or, what shall I read?)." Thereupon he caughtme for the third time and pressed me and then released me and said, "Read: In the Name of your Lord,Who has created (all that exists). Has created man from a clot. Read and Your Lord is MostGenerous...up to..... ..that which he knew not." (96.15)Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned with the Inspiration, his neck muscles twitching with terror till heentered upon Khadija and said, "Cover me! Cover me!" They covered him till his fear was over andthen he said, "O Khadija, what is wrong with me?" Then he told her everything that had happened andsaid, 'I fear that something may happen to me." Khadija said, 'Never! But have the glad tidings, for byAllah, Allah will never disgrace you as you keep good reactions with your Kith and kin, speak thetruth, help the poor and the destitute, serve your guest generously and assist the deserving, calamityafflictedones." Khadija then accompanied him to (her cousin) Waraqa bin Naufal bin Asad bin`Abdul `Uzza bin Qusai. Waraqa was the son of her paternal uncle, i.e., her father's brother, whoduring the Pre-Islamic Period became a Christian and used to write the Arabic writing and used towrite of the Gospels in Arabic as much as Allah wished him to write. He was an old man and had losthis eyesight. Khadija said to him, "O my cousin! Listen to the story of your nephew." Waraqa asked,"O my nephew! What have you seen?" The Prophet (ﷺ) described whatever he had seen.Waraqa said, "This is the same Namus (i.e., Gabriel, the Angel who keeps the secrets) whom Allahhad sent to Moses. I wish I were young and could live up to the time when your people would turnyou out." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "Will they turn me out?" Waraqa replied in the affirmative and said:"Never did a man come with something similar to what you have brought but was treated withhostility. If I should remain alive till the day when you will be turned out then I would support youstrongly." But after a few days Waraqa died and the Divine Inspiration was also paused for a whileand the Prophet (ﷺ) became so sad as we have heard that he intended several times to throw himself fromthe tops of high mountains and every time he went up the top of a mountain in order to throw himselfdown, Gabriel would appear before him and say, "O Muhammad! You are indeed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) intruth" whereupon his heart would become quiet and he would calm down and would return home. Andwhenever the period of the coming of the inspiration used to become long, he would do as before, butwhen he used to reach the top of a mountain, Gabriel would appear before him and say to him what hehad said before. (Ibn `Abbas said regarding the meaning of: 'He it is that Cleaves the daybreak (fromthe darkness)' (6.96) that Al-Asbah. means the light of the sun during the day and the light of themoon at night).