96 | 5 | 30 | Narrated Malik bin Aus An-Nasri: I proceeded till I entered upon `Umar (and while I was sitting there), his gate-keeper Yarfa came tohim and said, " `Uthman, `Abdur-Rahman, Az-Zubair and Sa`d ask your permission to come in."`Umar allowed them. So they entered, greeted, and sat down. (After a while the gatekeeper came) andsaid, "Shall I admit `Ali and `Abbas?'' `Umar allowed them to enter. Al-`Abbas said "O Chief of thebelievers! Judge between me and the oppressor (`Ali)." Then there was a dispute (regarding theproperty of Bani Nadir) between them (`Abbas and `Ali). `Uthman and his companions said, "O Chiefof the Believers! Judge between them and relieve one from the other." `Umar said, "Be patient!beseech you by Allah, with Whose permission the Heaven and the Earth Exist! Do you know thatAllah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Our property is not to be inherited, and whatever we leave is to be given incharity,' and by this Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) meant himself?" On that the group said, "He verily said so."`Umar then faced `Ali and `Abbas and said, "I beseech you both by Allah, do you both know thatAllah's Messenger (ﷺ) said so?" They both replied, "Yes". `Umar then said, "Now I am talking to you aboutthis matter (in detail) . Allah favored Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with some of this wealth which He did not giveto anybody else, as Allah said: 'What Allah bestowed as Fai (Booty on His Apostle for which youmade no expedition... ' (59.6)So that property was totally meant for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), yet he did not collect it and ignore you, nor didhe withhold it with your exclusion, but he gave it to you and distributed it among you till this much ofit was left behind, and the Prophet, used to spend of this as the yearly expenditures of his family andthen take what remained of it and spent it as he did with (other) Allah's wealth. The Prophet (ﷺ) did soduring all his lifetime, and I beseech you by Allah, do you know that?" They replied, "Yes." `Umarthen addressed `Ali and `Abbas, saying, "I beseech you both by Allah, do you know that?" Both ofthem replied, "Yes." `Umar added, "Then Allah took His Apostle unto Him. Abu Bakr then said 'I amthe successor of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)' and took over all the Prophet's property and disposed of it in thesame way as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to do, and you were present then." Then he turned to `Ali and`Abbas and said, "You both claim that Abu Bakr did so-and-so in managing the property, but Allahknows that Abu Bakr was honest, righteous, intelligent, and a follower of what is right in managing it.Then Allah took Abu Bakr unto Him, 'I said: I am the successor of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr.' SoI took over the property for two years and managed it in the same way as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and AbuBakr used to do. Then you both (`Ali and `Abbas) came to me and asked for the same thing! (O`Abbas! You came to me to ask me for your share from nephew's property; and this (`Ali) came to measking for his wives share from her father's property, and I said to you both, 'If you wish, I will placeit in your custody on condition that you both will manage it in the same way as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) andAbu Bakr did and as I have been doing since I took charge of managing it; otherwise, do not speak tome anymore about it.'Then you both said, 'Give it to us on that (condition).' So I gave it to you on that condition. Now Ibeseech you by Allah, did I not give it to them on that condition?" The group (whom he had beenaddressing) replied, "Yes." `Umar then addressed `Abbas and `Ali saying, "I beseech you both byAllah, didn't I give you all that property on that condition?" They said, "Yes." `Umar then said, "Areyou now seeking a verdict from me other than that? By Him with Whose Permission the Heaven andthe Earth exists I will not give any verdict other than that till the Hour is established; and if you bothare unable to manage this property, then you can hand it back to me, and I will be sufficient for it onyour behalf."