5|2303|  Chapter: The Khwarij and their characteristics.  Anas b. Malik reported that when on the Day of Hunain Allah conferred upon His  Apostle (may peace be upon him) the riches of Hawazin (without armed encounter), the  Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) set about distributing to some persons of  Quraish one hundred camels Upon this they (the young people from the Ansar) said:  May Allah grant pardon to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) that he  bestowed (these camels) upon the people of Quraish, and he ignored us, whereas our  swords are still dripping blood. Anas b. Malik said: Their statement was conveyed to the  Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and he sent (someone) to the Ansar and  gathered them under a tent of leather. When they had assembled, the Messenger of  Allah (may peace be upon him) came to them and said: What is this news that has  reached me from you? The wise people of the Ansar said: Messenger of Allah, so far as  the sagacious amongst us are concerned they have said nothing, but we have amongst  us persons of immature age; they said: May Allah grant pardon to the Messenger of  Allah (may peace be upon him) that he gave to the Quraish and ignored us (despite the  fact) that our swords are besmeared with their blood. Upon this the Messenger of Allah  (may peace be upon him) said: I give (at times material gifts) to persons who were quite  recently in the state of unbelief, so that I may incline them to truth Don’t you feel  delighted that people should go with riches, and you should go back to your places with  the Apostle of Allah? By Allah, that with which you would return is better than that with  which they would return. They said: Yes, Messenger of Allah, we are pleased. The Holy  Prophet said too: You would find marked preference (in conferring of the material gifts)  in future, so you should show patience till you meet Allah and His Messenger and I  would he at the Haud Kauthar. They said: We would show patience.  