7|2797|  Chapter: Types of Ihram- It is permissible to enter into the state of Ihram singularly for  the sake of Hajj or for tamattu’ bi’l-‘umra ila’l-Hajj or for both hajj and ‘umra together.  ‘Ata’ reported: I, along with some people, heard Jabir b. ‘Abdullah saying: We the  Companions of Muhammad (may peace be upon him) put on Ihram for Hajj only. Ata’  further said that Jabir stated: Allah’s Apostle (may peace be upon him) came on the 4th  of Dhu’l-Hijja and he commanded us to put off Ihram. ‘Ata’ said that he (Allah’s Apostle)  commanded them to put off Ihram and to go to their wives (for intercourse). ‘Ata’ said: It  was not obligatory for them, but (intercourse) with them had become permissible. We  said: When only five days had been left to reach ‘Arafa, he (the Holy Prophet)  commanded us to have intercourse with our wives. And we reached ‘Arafa in a state as  if we had just intercourse (with them). He (‘Ata’) said: Jabir pointed with his hand and I  (perceive) as if I am seeing his hand as it moved. In the (meantime) the Apostle of Allah  (may peace be upon him) stood amongst us and said: You are well aware that I am the  most God-fearing, most truthful and most pious amongst you. And if there were not  sacrificial animals with me, I would also have put off Ihram as you have put off. And if I  were to know this matter of mine what I have come to know later on. I would not have  brought sacrificial animals with me. So they (the Companions) put on Ihram and we also  put off and listened to (the Holy Prophet) and obeyed (his command). Jabir said: ‘All  came with the revenue of the taxes (from Yemen). He (the Holy Prophet) said: For what  (purpose) have you entered into the state of Ihram (whether you entered into the state  purely for Hajj and ,Umra jointly or Hajj and Umra separately)? He said: For the purpose  for which the Apostle of Allah (may peace be upon him) had entered. (The Holy Prophet  had entered as a Qiran, i.e. Ihram covering both Umra and Hajj simultaneously.)  Thereupon Allah’s Messenger (may peace be upon him) said: Offer a sacrifice of  animal, and retain Ihram. And ‘All brought a sacrificial animal for him (for the Holy  Prophet). Suraqa b. Malik b. Ju’shum said: Messenger of Allah, is it (this concession  putting off Ihram of Hajj or Umra) meant for this year or is it forever?. He said: It is  forever.  