7|2776|  Chapter: Types of Ihram- It is permissible to enter into the state of Ihram singularly for  the sake of Hajj or for tamattu’ bi’l-‘umra ila’l-Hajj or for both hajj and ‘umra together.  ‘Aisha (Allah be pleased with her) reported: We proceeded with the Messenger of Allah  (may peace be upon him) putting on the Ihram for Hajj during the months of Hajj and the  night of Hajj till we encamped at Sarlf. He (the Holy Prophet) went to his Companions  and said: He who has no sacrificial animal with him, in his case I wish that he should  perform Umra (with this Ihram), and he who has the sacrificial animal with him should  not do it. So some of them performed Hajj whereas others who had no sacrificial  animals with them did not do (Hajj, but performed only ‘Umra). The Messenger of Allah  (may peace be upon him) had the sacrificial animal with him and those too who could  afford it (performed) Hajj). The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) came to  me (i.e. ‘Aisha) while I was weeping, and he said: What makes thee weep? I said: I  heard your talk with Companions about Umra. He said: What has happened to you? I  said: I do not observe prayer (due to the monthly period), whereupon he said: It would  not harm you; you should perform (during this time) the rituals of Hajj (which you can do  outside the House). Maybe Allah will compensate you for this. You are one among the  daughters of Adam and Allah has ordained for you as He has ordained for them. So I  proceeded on (with the rituals of Hajj) till we came to Mina. I washed myself and then  circumambulated the House, and the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him)  encamped at Muhassab and called ,Abd al-Rahman b. Abu Bakr. and said: Take out  your sister from the precincts of the Ka’ba in order to put on Ihram for Umra and  circumambulate the House and I shall wait for you here. She said: So I went out and put  on Ihram and then circumambulated the House and (ran) between al-Safa and al- Marwa, and then we came to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and he  was in his house in the middle of the night. He said: Have you completed your (rituals)?  I said: Yes. He then announced to his Companions to march on. He came out, and went  to the House and circumambulated it before the dawn prayer and then proceeded to  Medina.           