19|4385|  Chapter: The battle of Hunain.  It has been narrated on the authority of 窶連bbas who said: I was in the company of the  Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) on the Day of Hunain. I and Abd Sufyan  b. Harith b. 窶連bd al-Muttalib stuck to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him)  and we did not separate from him. And the Messenger of Allah (may place be upon him)  was riding on his white mule which had been presented to him by Farwa b. Nufitha al- Judhami. When the Muslims had an encounter with the disbelievers, the Muslims fled,  falling back, but the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) began to spur his  mule towards the disbelievers. I was holding the bridle of the mule of the Messenger of  Allah (may peace be upon him) checking it from going very fast, and Abu Sufyan was  holding the stirrup of the (mule of the) Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him),  who said: Abbas, call out to the people of al-Samura. Abbas (who was a man with a  loud voice) called out at the top of the voice: Where are the people of Samura? (Abbas  said:) And by God, when they heard my voice, they came back (to us) as cows come  back to their calves, and said: We are present, we are present! 窶連bbas said: They  began to fight the infidels. Then there was a call to The Ansar. Those (who called out to  them) shouted: O ye party of the Ansar ! O party of the Ansar ! Banu al-Harith b. al- Khazraj were the last to be called. Those (who called out to them) shouted: O Banu Al- Harith b. al-Khazraj! O BanU Harith b. al-Khazraj ! And the Messenger of Allah (may  peace be upon him) who was riding on his mule looked at their fight with his neck  stretched forward and he said: This is the time when the fight is raging hot. Then the  Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) took (some) pebbles and threw them in  the face of the infidels. Then he said: By the Lord of Muhammad, the infidels are  defeated. 窶連bbas said: I went round and saw that the battle was in the same condition in  which I had seen it. By Allah, it remained in the same condition until he threw the  pebbles. I continued to watch until I found that their force had been spent out and they  began to retreat.  