19|4360|  Chapter: The help with angels in Badr and the permissibility of the spoils of war.  Abu Zumail said that the badith was narrated to him by Ibn ‘Abbas who said: While on  that day a Muslim was chasing a disbeliever who was going ahead of him, he heard  over him’ the swishing of the whip and the voice of the rider saying: Go ahead, Haizi’m !  He glanced at the polytheist who had (now) fallen down on his back. When he looked at  him (carefully he found that) there was a scar on his nose and his face was torn as if it  had been lashed with a whip, and had turned green with its poison. An Ansari came to  the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) and related this (event) to him. He  said: You have told the truth. This was the help from the third heaven. The Muslims that  day (i.e. the day of the Battle of Badr) killed seventy persons and captured seventy. The  Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said to Abu Bakr and ‘Umar (Allah be  pleased with them): What is your opinion about these captives? Abu Bakr said: They  are our kith and kin. I think you should release them after getting from them a ransom.  This will be a source of strength to us against the infidels. It is quite possible that Allah  may guide them to Islam. Then the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said:  What is your opinion. Ibn Khattab? He said: Messenger of Allah. I do not hold the same  opinion as Abu Bakr. I am of the opinion that you should hand them over to us so that  we may cut off their heads. Hand over ‘Aqil to ‘Ali that he may cut off his head, and  hand over such and such relative to me that I may but off his head. They are leaders of  the disbelievers and veterans among them. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be  upon him) approved the opinion of Abu Bakr and did not approve what I said The next  day when I came to the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him), I found that both  he and Abu Bakr were sitting shedding tears. I said: Messenger of Allah, why are you  and your Companion shedding tears? Tell me the reason. For I will weep ate, if not, I  will at least pretend to weep in sympathy with you. The Messenger of Allah (may peace  be upon him) said: I weep for what has happened to your companions for taking ransom  (from the prisoners). I was shown the torture to which they were subjected. It was  brought to me as close as this tree. (He pointed to a tree close to him.) Then God  revealed the verse: “It is not befitting for a prophet that he should take prisoners until the  force of the disbelievers has been crushed...” to the end of the verse: “so eat ye the  spoils of war, (it is) lawful and pure. So Allah made booty lawful for them.”         