23|5099|  Chapter: Permissibility of eating garlic, but avoiding it when one intends to talk to  eminent persons.  Aflah, the freed slave of Abu Ayyub Ansiri, reported: Allah’s Messenger(may peace be  upon him) had alighted in his house (viz. of Abu Ayyub Ansari at the time of his  emigration to Medina) and he occupied the lower storey, whereas Abu Ayyub Ansari  lived in the upper storey. One night, Abu Ayyub Ansari got up and said (to himself):  (How unfortunate it is) that we walk above the head of Allah’s Messenger (may peace  be upon him), so they went aside and spent the night in a nook and then told Allah’s  Apostle (may peace be upon him) about it whereupon Allah’s Apostle (may peace be  upon him) said: The lower storey is more comfortable (for me), but he (Abu Ayyub  Ansari) said: We (would not live) over the roof under which you live. So Allah’s  Messenger (may peace be upon him) shifted to the upper storey, whereas Abu Ayyub  Ansari shifted to the lower storey; and he (Abu Ayyub Ansari) used to prepare food for  Allah’s Apostle (may peace be upon him); and when it was brought (back) to him he  asked (to locate) the part, where his fingers had touched (the food), and he followed his  fingers on that part where his fingers (those of the Holy Prophet) had touched it. (One  day) he prepared food which contained garlic, and when it was returned to him he  asked (to locate) the part which the fingers of Allah’s Apostle (may peace be upon him)  had touched. It was said to him that he had not eaten (the food). He (Abd Ayyub Ansari)  was distressed and went up to him (to the Holy Prophet) and said: Is it forbidden? But  Allah’s Messenger (may peace be upon him) said: No, (it is not forbidden), but I do not  like it, and he (Abu Ayyub Ansari) said: I also do not like what you do not like or which  you did not like. He (Abu Ayyub Ansari) said: (The Holy Prophet did not eat garlic) as  Allah’s Apostle (may peace be upon him) was visited (by angels) and brought him the  message of Allah.  